Date: Tue, 07 Jan 1997 15:49:54 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.3
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3420
Last-modified: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 17:21:49 GMT


Lab Safety Manual






Office of Environmental Health and Safety

Hazardous Materials Division

The University of Texas at Austin

November 1996





Note To Users Of This


Laboratory Safety Manual


The Office of Environmental Health and Safety (OEHS) Hazardous

Materials Division has prepared this manual to ensure safe practices

in laboratories.  The health and safety policy of The University

is to take every reasonable precaution to protect the health and

safety of faculty, staff, students, and the public.  Mandatory

safety standards, as interpreted by the requirements and policies

stated in this manual and its supplements apply to faculty, staff,

researchers, and students engaged in laboratory operations utilizing

chemical products and in performing common laboratory procedures.

This manual includes information concerning safe laboratory practices,

the use of personal protective equipment, emergency procedures,

use and storage of chemicals, and the proper methods of waste

disposal.  This manual covers safety practices for labs in the

biological sciences, incorporating a full description of the various

biosafety levels and procedures unique to each.  This manual also

covers hazard communication and incident response.  This information

is intended to help those in the laboratory to minimize hazards

to themselves and their colleagues.

In view of the wide variety of chemical products handled in laboratories,

it should not be assumed that the precautions and requirements

stated in this manual are all-inclusive.  Faculty, researchers,

and students are expected to learn about the hazards of chemical

products before handling them.  It is expected that the local

departmental Chemical Hygiene Officers and Principal Investigators

will append to this manual any supplementary information pertinent

to their specific areas.

Throughout this manual the terms "employee", "laboratory

worker", and "laboratory personnel" are used interchangeably

and are intended to include students working in a laboratory,

unless the context indicates otherwise.

Please contact the OEHS Hazardous Materials Division at 471-3511

for more information or for assistance.



Go to the Lab Safety Manual:
Table of Contents

To
download
the most recent printable version of the Lab Safety Manual in Adobe Acrobat .pdf (738k)

Free Acrobat Reader allows you to view, navigate,  and print PDF files across all major computing platforms.




20 November 96
UT Austin
OEHS
Comments to:
www@oehs.ser.utexas.edu
>



