Date: Mon, 06 Jan 1997 21:18:24 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Mon, 09 Dec 1996 20:34:29 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 11235





Home Page of ACCCF







News and Announcements

Austin Chinese Church

Spring Magazine



Fellowship

ACCCF T-Shirt

Prayer Meeting



Fall '96 Schedule

Directory

'96 - '97 Coworkers



Christian Resources

Our Brothers and Sisters









ACCCF? What is it?


ACCCF, Austin Chinese Campus Christian Fellowship, is a group
of Christians who get together in fellowship to encourage
and support each other. The activities of the fellowship
help Christians to grow in our spiritual life. Another function
is to share the Gospel with students who have not yet received
Christ.



What activities do you have?


We have prayer, Bible study, talks on special topics,
dinner, singing hymns, discipleship, evangelism, and
small group activities.



When and where do you meet?


We usually meet from 7:30 to 10:00 on Friday evenings at
WEL
2.246 (WEL is the Rober A. Welch Hall. It is on Speedway
and 24th Street.) Sometimes we have special arrange-
ments. Please refer to our schedule.



What Does It Mean to be a Christian?


Christians are those who have given their life over to
Jesus Christ. One way of describing what Christians is by
their basis, doctrine, life, and obedience. A Christian's
basis of authority is God's word, the Bible.



Our Basic Beliefs



There is and will forever be only One True God, inseparable,
almighty, all-knowing, good, eternally self-existing
in three distinct Persons, the Father, Son, and
Holy Spirit. God is loving, kind, merciful; righteous, stern,
holy; and sovereign, just, and trustworthy.

The sixty-six books of the Bible are the inspired Word of
God, without error in the original manuscripts.
It is authoritative, trustworthy, and complete.
It is precious to us, and we try to understand,
live, and obey it as Jesus and the Biblical writers
meant.

God both created and sustains all creatures,
angels, demons, and all the universe for His
glory. People are and will not be God, but all
people are made in God's image. Since the fall
people are sinful before God. All the earth was
good, but since the fall it is imperfect and now
under Satan's control.

Jesus was born of the Virgin Mary and is fully
man and fully God. He came to earth to die as an
atoning sacrifice for our sins to completely save
us and purify us from all unrighteousness. He was
bodily raised from the dead. There is no other
way to go to heaven except through God's only
begotten Son. Jesus Christ will personally return
in power and glory in the second coming.

After death believers go to conscious eternal
bliss with God in heaven and then in the new
heaven and earth. Unbelievers go to conscious
eternal torment away from God in hell and then
the Lake of Fire.



Our Basic Experience



Some of us converted to Christianity from other backgrounds;
others of us were raised in Christian families.
Regardless, all Christians have repented of their
sins, believed God, and asked God to come into their
life as their Lord. We no longer live only for ourselves,
but in everything, work, play, and study, we do
our best to glorify God. We no longer live by ourselves,
but the Holy Spirit dwells in all believers.

We rely on God and not ourselves not only for His free gift
of salvation, but also for preserving us and transforming
us by His Holy Spirit. We must examine ourselves
though, for counterfeit Christians can be deceived.
While we are declared righteous by God, we still
sin while on earth, and the Holy Spirit is sanctifying us
so that we can live sinlessly in heaven.

Our Christian life is centered around God. and involves 1)
be nurtured in God's word, 2) fellowship and
loving others, 3) evangelism, mission, and discipling,
and 4) worship and prayer. While we study, work,
play, as help people as others do, we do this
things to live lives pleasing to God, trusting in God
rather than ourselves, and enjoying being in God's
love.

Obedient Christians may still at times be down, disappointed,
suffering, persecuted, but God never ceases to
love us deeply. He is there strengthening and renewing
us. We also love one another deeply, both in joyful
celebration and helping others through hard
times.



Our Basic Practice



In all things, true Christians strive to please
our Lord. We strive to obey the greatest
commandment and love our Lord with all we are. We
worship none except the True God. We do not
engage in the occult, superstition, idols, or give
religious worship to any others. We must not
worship through graven images. Since we fully
love God and are devoted to Him, we spend time reading His
word, meditating on Him, praying, and worshipping Him.

We strive to obey God's command to be holy and Christlike.
We strive to have integrity in our whole life, not
to defraud or hurt others. We do not cheat. We
are Temples of the Holy Spirit and we honor God
with our bodies by not getting drunk, high on drugs,
or abusing our bodies. We turn away from worldly
passions, material extravagance, and selfish ambition. We
give God our lives, money, and time.

We strive to obey God's command to love others as ourselves.
We are kind towards all, but especially towards
those in need. Rather than being proud, we regard
others' needs as greater or equal to our own. We
do not want to hurt others physically, or by gossip, slander,
stumbling others, or a lack of love. We honor our
parents, governments, and we obey all laws that
do not conflict with God's laws.

We work together with other Christians, in ours
and other fellowships, to share the gospel,
nurture, exhort, and encourage believers, oppose
evil and guard against error, and in general to
be salt and light in this world.




Last updated: Dec 9, 1996


Mail comments, questions,
suggestions, ideas to:
acccf@www.utexas.edu



ACCCF is a
registered
student organization
of the
University of Texas at
Austin
.





