MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Tuesday, 07-Jan-97 15:26:07 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 2655
Automatic Programming Server

Automatic Programming Server
This is an experimental offering of an Automatic Programming Server
that will write computer programs for you.
It is currently UNDER CONSTRUCTION, so some things may not work.
The user interface could use some improvement.
You are free to use the programs that are created for
any legitimate purpose.  However, these programs are furnished "as is"
and with NO WARRANTY of any kind, expressed or implied, including
warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose.
In most programming languages, a procedure specifies argument types,
and any call to that procedure must use the same types.  Therefore, to
reuse someone else's procedure, you must understand and conform to
their data types.
In our approach, a
view
describes how your data matches the
abstract data used by the system.
Generic procedures
can be
specialized by compilation through the view to yield versions of the
programs that operate on your data.
To obtain programs from this Automatic Programming Server, you must:


Describe your data structures.


Make one or more views of your data as abstract data.


Request programs that you would like to be written.

The programs are served to you at the end of a file that appears after
the demo is finished.  You can select the programming language desired
(Lisp or C).
Programs are available for data structures (e.g. linked lists, binary trees,
AVL trees) and for mathematical structures (e.g. line segment, cone).
When the program is started, a window is created with a command menu
and input and output areas.  Click the appropriate menu items to perform
the three steps listed above.

Instructions



You must be logged in to a host running X windows.
Type
xhost + www.cs.utexas.edu
(exactly as shown
at left) in a window on that host
to allow this server to write to your display.
Enter your X display name here if needed; you may need to change
what is shown in the box to your X display name.  For example,
myterminal.cs.utexas.edu:0.0



Click
to start the demo.


Gordon S. Novak Jr.


