Date: Mon, 06 Jan 1997 21:55:15 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Fri, 06 Dec 1996 16:02:47 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6104
Office of Graduate Studies -UT Austin









Office of Graduate Studies


Office of the Vice-President and Dean of Graduate Studies


Main Building 101
The University of Texas at Austin
Austin, Texas 78712




Campus Maps





View this site using
Hot Sauce

(Download the
Hot Sauce Plugin
)




Vice President Teresa A. Sullivan



Admissions Information



Graduate Programs



Graduate Fellowships



International Programs



Graduate Outreach Program




Deadlines, Policies, Newsletters



Graduate Studies Personnel



Libraries, Centers, Institutes



Graduate Organizations



Preparing Future Faculty Program




New Graduate Student Information Packet







Mission Statements



Vice President Teresa A. Sullivan


Admissions Information
Find out how to apply to Graduate School and the requirements for admission to graduate programs.  View the
Graduate Catalog
.


Graduate Programs
View a listing of departments and programs that offer graduate degrees, along with their Graduate Advisers and Coordinators.




Graduate Fellowships

Find out about the various fellowships available to graduate students along with their requirements and how to apply for them.



International Programs
Read about information concerning all international activities at UT Austin, including all educational and scientific links with international institutions from the
Office of the Associate Vice President for International Programs
and the
Study Abroad
program.


Graduate Outreach Program





Deadlines, Policies and Newsletters
See the calendar of upcoming deadlines for Masters and Doctoral students.  Read the weekly
Graduate Studies Newsletter.
Refer to the Instructions for the Preparation of Doctoral Dissertations,Dissertation Abstracts, Format Instructions for the Master's Thesis and Report along with other Graduate Studies policies.



Graduate Studies Personnel

Meet the staff of the Office of the Vice-President and Dean of Graduate Studies.



Libraries, Centers, Institutes

Get additional information about research sites such as the General Libraries, the Center for American History, and special collections on the UT campus.


Graduate Organizations
Link to various Graduate Organizations.


Preparing Future Faculty Program
Find out more about the Preparing Future Faculty Program, see the list of events and activities planned for this year, sign up and register.





New Graduate Student Information Packet
Browse the collection of helpful information distributed to new graduate students including dates of interest, links to valuable internet sources, and thesis and dissertation template information.










UT Home




Last updated: 11/96
Office of the Vice-President and Dean of Graduate Studies
(512) 471-7213


Request Graduate Information

Apply to Graduate School

Comments concerning GS web pages:
ogs@www.utexas.edu


