Date: Tuesday, 14-Jan-97 23:39:46 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wednesday, 10-Jan-96 17:12:25 GMT
Content-length: 3557
DAKOTA Home Page









DAKOTA
Microcomoputer Based Aircraft Routing and Scheduling System

Sponsored by:
Air Force Office for Scientific Research (AFOSR)
Air Force Mobility Modeling and Simulation Users Group (AFMMSUG)
United States Air Force in Europe (USAFE)



The DAKOTA software facilitates the mission routing and scheduling
tasks for the United States Air force in Europe. The system
facilitates scheduling of critical mission travel by distinguished
visitors and officers, serving Europe, the former Soviet Union, and
Africa, as well as transcontinental flights to the United States. A
heterogeneous fleet of Aircraft including C-12, C-135, C-20, C-21 and
T-41 planes is available, with differing capacities, endurance, speed
and facilities. Each type of aircraft is allocated a fixed number of
flying hours. The objective of the process is to maximize overall
efficiency of the fleet. This is done by supporting travel of as many
eligible personnel as possible, within the constraints of fleet size,
flying hours and other limitations.
The software allows entering requests for travel and information about
airports, aircraft and passengers. Missions can be scheduled, either
manually or by utilizing the decision support module. A number of
tools are provided to facilitate the scheduler's  task, including
maps, tables, feasibility checking, and summaries of available flying
hours.
On line access to dakota:
The online access to Dakota is restricted to one user at any given time.
The demo version runs the no-server version which means that the user can
work on only one screen at a time.
telnet ndsun
(login: dktdemo)
[NOTE: Your telnet application will need to handle some kind of XTERMINAL to display the demo]

If you would like to
Michael Haugrud
) or (
Dr. Nygard
).

The home pages on individual screens are under construction.



Map
Screen






Schedule Screen



INPUT SCREENS



Airport Atlas Screen

Passenger Screen



Aircraft Data Entry Screen






Request Screen





Grease Board





Online Help






