Date: Tuesday, 14-Jan-97 22:08:30 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Monday, 17-Jul-95 15:10:19 GMT
Content-length: 3560

The TRAINS Project:
A Case Study in Building a Conversational Planning Agent




TRAINS Technical Note 94-3

The TRAINS Project: A case study in building a conversational
planning agent


James F. Allen, Lenhart K. Schubert, George Ferguson, Peter Heeman,
Chung Hee Hwang, Tsuneaki Kato[1], Marc Light, Nathaniel G.
Martin, Bradford W. Miller, Massimo Poesio[2], David R. Traum

The TRAINS project has been funded in part by ONR/ARPA grant
N00014-92-J-1512, U.S. Air Force--Rome Laboratory research contract
F30602-91-C-0010, and NSF grant IRI-90-13160.
This paper appeared in the
Journal of Experimental and Theoretical
AI
,
7
(1995), 7--48.

Abstract:

The TRAINS  project is an effort to build a conversationally
proficient planning assistant. A key part of the project is the
construction of the TRAINS  system, which provides the research
platform for a wide range of issues in natural language
understanding, mixed-initiative planning systems, and representing
and reasoning about time, actions and events.  Four years have now
passed since the beginning of the project. Each year we have
produced a demonstration system that focused on a dialog that
illustrates particular aspects of our research.  The commitment to
building complete integrated systems is a significant overhead on
the research, but we feel it is essential to guarantee that the
results constitute real progress in the field. This paper describes
the goals of the project, and our experience with the effort so far.

[1] Tsuneaki Kato's address is NTT Information and Communication
Systems Lab, Kanagawa, JAPAN.
[2] Massimo Poesio's address is Centre for Cognitive Science,
University of Edinburgh, 2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9LW
Scotland, UK.


Table of Contents


Introduction

Choosing the Task

The TRAINS System as a Conversational Agent

The TRAINS Demonstration Systems

The TRAINS System Infrastructure


The TRAINS-93 Architecture

Episodic Logic

The EBTL Representation


An Overview of the TRAINS Modules


Syntactic and Semantic Rules

Lexical Processing

The Parser

Deindexing

Conversation Act Analysis

The Dialogue Manager

The Domain Plan Reasoner

The Execution Planner


Other Issues


The TRAINS Simulator

Temporal Reasoning

Speech Repairs


Discussion

References

TRAINS Technical Note Series


Other TRAINS-related Publications




George Ferguson



