Server: Dienst V4-1-1
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Misclassification Minimization

Misclassification Minimization
Olvi L. Mangasarian
CS-TR-93-1186
October 1993
The problem of minimizing the number of misclassified points by a plane, attempting to separate two point sets with intersecting convex hulls in $n$-dimensional real space, is formulated as a linear program with equilibrium constraints (LPEC). This general LPEC can be converted to an exact penalty problem with a quadratic objective and linear constraints. A Frank-Wolfe-type algorithm is proposed for the penalty problem that terminates at a stationary point or a global solution. Novel aspects of the approach include: (i) A linear complementarity formulation of the step function that ``counts'' misclassifications, (ii) Exact penalty formulation without boundedness, nondegeneracy or constraint qualification assumptions, (iii) An exact solution extraction from the sequence of minimizers of the penalty function for a finite value of the penalty parameter for the general LPEC and an explicitly exact solution for the LPEC with uncoupled constraints, and (iv) A parametric quadratic programming formulation of the LPEC associated with the misclassification minimization problem.


How to view this document



Display the
whole
document in one of the following formats.

PostScript
76751 bytes. (compressed on disk, will be sent uncompressed)



Print or download all or selected pages.



You are granted permission for the non-commercial reproduction, distribution,display, and performance of this technical report in any format, BUT thispermission is only for a period of 45 (forty-five) days from the most recenttime that you verified that this technical report is still available fromthe Computer Science Department of the University of Wisconsin - Madison underterms that include this permission.  All other rights are reserved by theauthor(s).
[
Search
]

NCSTRL
This server operates at UW Madison Computer Sciences Technical Reports .

Send email to
www@cs.wisc.edu

