Date: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 21:47:36 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 25 Oct 1996 23:05:13 GMT
Content-length: 10937


alt.fan.dave_barry Frequently Asked Questions










Dave Barry Frequently Asked Questions



If this document is slow loading, it is available at two sites:


University of W
isconsin

University of Maryl
and



This is the Frequently Asked Questions List (FAQ) for the Usenet Newsgroup
alt.fan.dave_barry
.  This list was last updated 10/15/96.
The current version of this FAQ is posted to
alt.fan.dave_barry,
alt.answers, and news.answers
around the beginning of each month.
It can also be anonymously FTP'ed from
rtfm.mit.edu
in the directory,
/pub/usenet/alt.fan.dave_barry .  If you don't have anonymous FTP
capabilities, send mail to
mail-server@rtfm.mit.edu
with the word
"help" and "index" (without the quotes) on separate lines in the body
for information about obtaining the FAQ through e-mail.  You can
also obtain a copy through gopher from
jupiter.sun.csd.unb.ca
and
on WWW from
http://www.smartpages.com/faqs/
.
Information about copying and redistributing of this FAQ can be found
at the end of the posting.  Monthly diffs for this FAQ are posted to
alt.fan.dave_barry (not crossposted to
news.answers
or
alt.answers
).
Please send Corrections, Additions, or Suggestions to:

Mike Steele

(msteele@cs.wisc.edu)
,
"Alert FAQ Editor"



Index of Other Pages


Books By Dave Barry

TV Show
Dave's World

Places to Read Dave Barry's Columns:

Electronic Newspapers

Traditional Newspapers

Other Periodicals




Index of This Page


Who is Dave Barry?

Other WWW Pages About Dave

Mailing List
(there isn't one)
Address to Write to Dave

Mensa's Dave Barry Fan Club

The Worst Song Contest

Rock Bottom Remainders
(Dave's band)
What is Tropic Hunt?

Purchasable Dave Paraphernalia

Articles
about
Dave






Dave Who?


No, not Dave Who, Dave
Barry
.  Dave Barry is a syndicated
columnist whose humorous articles appear in hundreds of newspapers
every week.  When he's not writing his columns for the enjoyment of the
world, he writes for the Miami Herald's Tropic Magazine.  Dave has won
a Pulitzer Prize for his humor columns (for several of his columns in
the category of Distinguished Social Commentary in 1988) and is the lead
guitarist in a rock band called the
Rock Bottom Remainders
.
Plus, Dave is the leader of the Urban Professionals and an all-around
nice guy who tries to protect his readers from the dangers of the world
around them, like exploding cows and trout falling from the sky.  This
newsgroup is *not* about David Barry, the auto writer for Vogue
Magazine.


Is there a Dave Barry WWW page?




The Dave Barry Frequently Asked Questions List

The Random House
Dave Barry In Cyberspace
Page

Jon Grimes's Dave Barry Page

The Dave Barry for President Page




Is there a mailing list version of this newsgroup?


Nope.


How can I Write to Dave?


To write to Dave Barry (and get your very own postcard reply from "The
Man" himself), write to:
Dave Barry
c/o Tropic Magazine
Miami Herald
1 Herald Plaza
Miami, FL  33132



Does Dave read this newsgroup?

Yup.  He even posts once in a while.

Can I send E-Mail to Dave?

Yup.

Well?  Aren't you going to tell me his address?

If you had millions of fans who all wanted to have frequent, personal,
e-mail conversations with you, you'd probably feel flattered for the
first 5 minutes, and then spend the rest of your life regretting that
you told anyone your e-mail address.
Dave doesn't want his address in the FAQ, for pretty much the above
reason.  Plus, he says he gets too much regular paper-mail to keep up
with, let alone trying to manage fan e-mail too.  If you really want
it, watch the group for one of his posts and get the address off that.
But Dave would just as soon have you post to
alt.fan.dave_barry
rather
than send personal mail, and he'll see your note on the newsgroup.


Is there a non-Internet Dave Barry Fan Club?


Why, yes there is...  The Dave Barry Fan Club puts out a newsletter
three times a year entitled "We're Not Making This Up" which features
info about Dave and personal letters from him (he fills out a questionairre
for each issue).  To recieve the newsletter (through regular mail,
not e-mail) send $6 ($4.50 for members of
Mensa
) for a year (or $1 for
a 1 issue sample) to:
Rocky Lefarth
PO Box 510523
St. Louis, MO  63151

Contact Barbara Ploegstra
(bploegst@smtpgwy.ssmhc.com)
for more
information.


Recently, Dave had a "Worst Song" Contest.  What did he pick as the worst
Rock and Roll Song of All Time?


"MacArthur Park", written by Jim Webb, performed by Richard Harris in 1968
and later in 1978 by Donna Summer.


On the Topic of Bad Music, What's That Band that Dave's In?


Dave is the lead guitarist for the rock band,
The Rock Bottom Remainders
.
The group includes such popular writers as Dave Barry (lead guitar,vocals),
Stephen King (rhythm guitar,vocals), Ridley Pearson (bass guitar), Amy Tan
(vocals), Barbara Kingsolver (keyboards), Robert Fulghum (backup vocals),
Roy Blount Jr. (backup vocals), Dave Marsh (backup vocals), Tad Bartimus
(backups vocals), and organizer Kathi Goldmark (backup vocals).  The group
was put together by Goldmark at a writers convention in 1991.  They named
the band after the bookstore practice of selling last year's bestsellers at
bargain rates.  Music veteren Al Kooper is the band's musical director and
plays keyboards and guitar with the band.  The group went on its first tour
in May, 1993, with the proceeds going to the Right to Rock Network and a
variety of literacy and First Amendment organizations.  Their motto is, "We
play music as well as Metallica writes novels."
A book about the Rock Bottom Remainders has been published, entitled
Mid-Life Confidential:  The Rock
Bottom Remainders Tour America with Three Chords and an Attitude
.


What is Tropic Hunt?


Tropic Hunt is a combination scavenger hunt and brain puzzle held in the Miami
area which is hosted by the
Miami Herald's
Tropic Magazine.  It will
be held in November this year.
Dave is one of the Hunt's creators and he helps organize it.  Asides from
that, it's hard to explain.


Dave Barry Paraphernalia



The Dave Barry Screen Saver
Yes!  Second Nature Software has put out a "Dave Barry Screensaver".
It's available at least for MS Windows (possibly other operating
systems too).  It contains 24 MacNelly cartoons which illustrate
Dave Barry's columns.  The column that goes with each of the cartoons
is available on-line at the click of a button.  The Dave Barry
screensaver should be available at any large chain of software
stores.  If you can't find it in your area, you can download
Second Nature Software's catalog (and order, get a sampler, etc)
by modem at (503)211-8744 (2400-14.4k baud, N81) or, call them
by phone at (503)291-9500.

Dave Barry Daily Calendar
365 quotes a year from Dave Barry

Dave Barry For President Bumper Sticker
Dave used to mail these out when he was running for President in 1992.  I'm
not sure if he still does or not

Dave Barry T-Shirt/Sweatshirt
Has quote about men only wanting tickets to
the world series.  It's available from the
Wireless
catalog

A Totally Random Evening with Dave Barry
Compact Disc
Available from Southern Tracks Records -- STD-0031.  In case you can't find
it locally, try:
Southern Tracks Records
3051 Clairmont Road
Atlanta, GA  30329
(404) 325-0832
FAX: (404) 325-1075
(mark your fax "FAO: GINO")





Where Can I find Articles ABOUT Dave Barry?


To see a list of articles about Dave,
Click Here.


Feel free to quote from this document as long as proper credit is given
to the editor and (if specified) the contributor of the information.
If you intend to reprint or redistrubute the entire FAQ or quote large
chunks of it, please contact the editor first for permission.
Copyright 1996 by Michael Steele (
msteele@cs.wisc.edu
).


© 1996 by
Mike Steele
, (
msteele@cs.wisc.edu
),
Madison, WI, USA

