Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 18:52:54 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Tue, 23 Jan 1996 16:05:54 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3466



Syllabus for 198:538


198:538: Complexity of Computation

Meeting times and locations:
Mondays and Wednesdays, 2:50--4:10 SEC 203.
Index number for registration: 72693
Professor
Eric Allender



Phone: (908) 445-3629
FAX: (908) 445-0537

Email: allender@cs.rutgers.edu
Office: Hill 442
Click here for current
Office Hours
.


Text:
Christos Papadimitriou:
Computational Complexity
.
Various papers on recent results will supplement the text.

ROUGH COURSE OUTLINE
The actual list of topics may vary slightly from the list that follows
below, depending on the interests of the class.  For instance, it would
be quite possible to include more material about the relationship between
finite model theory and complexity theory, if there is sufficient interest.

This course covers the field of
computational complexity theory, beginning with the fundamental theorems
that delimit what one can expect of such a theory.  We will also study
the diagonalization techniques that continue to be among the most powerful
tools in complexity theory.

Gap Theorem, Hierarchy Theorems
Blum Speed-Up Theorem, Levin's Lower Bound Theorem

The notions that have the most practical importance in classifying
the complexity of problems are
complexity classes
and
reducibility
among problems.  Many important complexity classes
are characterized most simply in terms of variants of
Nondeterministic
computation
.

Immerman-Szelepcsenyi Theorem
Nondeterministic Time Hierarchy Theorem
Feasible Computation; Reducibility, Completeness

Alternation
, a generalization of nondeterminism, is very
useful in relating time and space complexity, and it also models
parallel computation and circuit complexity.

Alternating Turing Machines
Basic relations to Dtime and Dspace
Circuit Complexity, Parallel Computation
The Polynomial Hierarchy
Branching Programs; Barrington's Theorem

Probabilistic Computation and Circuit Complexity

Presentation of problems requiring large circuits
NP has small circuits implies PH collapses; related results
Probabilistic Complexity Classes; Basic Inclusions and Closure
Properties
Deterministic circuits simulate probabilistic computation.
BPP is in PH
Toda's Theorem: PH is reducible to PP
Closure properties of PP; connections to threshold circuits.

Relativization Results; Oracles relative to which P=NP and oracles
relative to which P is not equal to NP, and related results.
Interactive Proofs

Collapse of the AM Hierarchy
Elimination of Private Coins
IP=PSPACE
NEXPTIME = 2-prover interactive proofs.
Non-Relativizing Proof Techniques

Prerequisites:
198:452, 198:509, and 198:513,
OR
familiarity with the
basic notions of data structures and algorithms, and common models of
computation (e.g., Turing machines, finite automata, etc.)

Expected Work:
Bi-weekly
homework
assignments.

