Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 19:17:15 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3644
Last-modified: Thu, 10 Oct 1996 23:28:45 GMT


Cis 410/510 Object Oriented Analysis/Design



Cis 410/510 Object Oriented Analysis/Design

Note:
This page is still under construction, so bear with me...
For people who don't know Java, we have an on-line
tutorial
.


Syllabus




week 1

Introduction to the course. The first topic considers the motivation for an object-based approach tyo software design. The second class will consider Fusion: A Software Development Method (Coleman, et. al, Ch1) and address the question, "What are methodologies and why are they needed?" Groups are to be formed during this week.


week 2

Systems analysis. This week is devoted to understanding Object and Interface models, with consideration given to the process of analysis and the analysis cycle (Coleman, et. al. Ch2). The process of analysis will be divided into three class periods. Process of analysis I and II examine the development of the object model (pp. 36-44); process of analysis III examines the development of the interface model.


Week 3

Systems design and first presentation. Selected groups will be asked to depict the analysis required and undertaken for their first project. System Design begins with a discussion of Object Interaction Graphs (Coleman, pp.62-86).


Week 4

Continuation of Systems Design. The first class considers Class Descriptions and Class Categories, while the second considers Inheritance Graphs (Coleman pp87-100). Other topics include interface and database design.


Week 5

Systems Implementattion and second presentation. Selected groups will be asked to explain the system design of their first project. Implementation begins with Class Descriptions, Methods, Data dictionary, and error handling (pp. 101-120). The final class features performance, scoping reviews, and implementation (pp.120-143).


Week 6

Each student group will be asked to present their first design.
All materials are due for the first project following class on the 8th.


Week 7

Other methods and class examination. This week features other methodologies, with emphasis given to Booch and the Ration Rose CASE tool (Ch8). Reuse is discussed as a separate topic(Ch 9).


Week 8

Topics important to the management of a fusion project (Ch 10) are discussed first to complete the readings from the text. Topics important to ComponentWare are considered next, with readings assigned. When studying these materials, ask yourself, "Has the object-oriented method failed?" If yes, why? If no, "What must be done to imprrove on this approach?"


Week 9

More on ComponentWare. Readings will be assigned. And "Happy Turkey Day!"


Week 10

Topics important to ComponentWare and Agents are considered this final week. One of the topics you will be asked to consider is how to design a Summary Information File (SIF) for each component of a software design.


Week 11

Final Presentations: 3:15-5:15 Monday, December 9. All materials for the second project are due following the final presentations.




Maintainer of this page:
Bjørn S. Fjeld Pettersen
email:
bjorn@cs.uoregon.edu
