Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 19:10:40 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 22:21:42 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4288

EECS 498-2: Course Homepage



EECS 498-2: Computer Game Design and Implementation
Course Homepage



Use the mouse to move the paddle.
A click will put the ball in motion.





Download DirectX III.
Check under Assignment #5 for DirectX sites

Class Information


Offered:
Fall 1996
In this course we will study the technology, science, and art involved
in the creation of computer games.  The course will emphasize hands-on
development of games. We will study a variety of software technologies
relevant to games including programming languages, scripting
languages, operating systems, file systems, networks, simulation
engines, and multi-media design systems. We will also study some of
the underlying scientific concepts from computer science and related
fields including: simulation and modeling, graphics, artificial
intelligence, real-time processing, and game theory. Finally, we will
study the art and design principles for developing usuable and
engaging games including: software engineering, human computer
interaction, thematic structure, graphic design, choreography, musics
and sound effects, and game aesthetics.
The course will include visiting lectures and a variety of group
projects. The group projects will involve system implementation, but
emphasize design and use of existing tools. The final group project
will require the students to go through all phases of system
conceptualization, specification, design, implementation, and
evaluation.

Instructor:
John Laird

Teaching Assistant:
Mike van Lent

Prerequisites:
EECS 380

Meeting Times:
W-F, 3:30-5:00pm

Location:
1301 EECS

Credits
3

Textbook:
Tricks of the Game Programming Gurus
by LaMothe, Ratcliff, Seminator, & Tyler


Class Related Links



Syllabus



Syllabus for 499



Class Schedule


Assignment #1: Web Scavenger Hunt



Answers for Assignment #1



Assignment #2: Game Review


Assignment #3: Program an Arcade Game



Instructions for compiling the pong example program


There will be an evening session on using the Borland C/C++ compiler
on Tuesday, September 24th at 7:00pm in the Pentium training rooms
(A & B).


Notes on Assignment #3

The sample code for the
Macintosh version of Pong
is available as well as the
Apple Game Sprockets
.


Assignment #4: Build a Quake Level



Notes on downloading and using Thred


Thred06b.zip


Threddll.zip



Assignment #5: Write a Game!



Direct X III SDK


Microsoft's Game Development Site


Direct X Developer's Page


Direct Draw Programming


Creating Hot Games



Game Programming Resources



Game Programming Books


Game Programming Magazines


Game Programming Web Sites


Game Programming Newsgroups



