Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 22:40:48 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 18 Nov 1996 20:44:41 GMT
CPS 100 Using Computers Home Page, Fall 1996, MSU








CPS 100

Using Computers

Spring 1996









If you live in Akers, Homles, or Shaw
Halls and have your own computer, click here




Welcome to the CPS 100 Home Page!
This page will provide you with information about CPS100, give you
access to files necessary to complete assignments, and point you
to several WWW documents of interest around the world.



Course Information



Course Description

Course description as listed in the Michigan State
University Green Book.

The CPS 100 Staff

There are many people involved in keeping this course
running smoothly.


Course Calendar

Completely outlines the day-to-day activities in the
course.  By clicking on this link, you will download an
MS-Word file.

Exam Information

Need information about an upcoming exam?  This is
probably a good place to look.

Make-up Lab Information

Miss a lab?  Well, you'd better go make it up.  Here's
some helpful information.

Help Desk Hours

The TA's for this course are eager to help you with
your homeworks or other course work.

Putting a Page on the WWW

If you want to know how to create your own homepage and put
it out on the World Wide Web, look here.  We will talk about
it more in Lab #15.

Connecting from
Your Dorm Room or from Off-campus

So you have a computer, and you want to know how you can
connect to the MSU computer network from home or from your
dorm room.  Here's the place to look.


Assignments



Inlab #5

This is a link to the inlab assignment for Lab #5.

Homework #6

This is a link to Homework #6.

Lab #15

This link contains examples from the Lab #15 Notes.


Other Important Links



MSU Gopher

Gopher is a service in which you can find information about
MSU, convenient reference items, and easy access to campus
and Internet services.


CPS 100 Gopher

This course uses gopher to make official course announcements
and to supply additional instructional material.

CPS 100 FTP

This site allows you to transfer files you will need for
class to the computer you are using.

Telnet to StuInfo

Connect to StuInfo for student information such as your
tuition balance.

Interesting Links

A handful of interesting web pages not related to CPS 100
at all.



CPS 100 - Using Computers

