Date: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 22:49:37 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 02 May 1996 16:53:18 GMT
Content-length: 7604


cs368 -- Geometric Algorithms





cs368: Geometric Algorithms

Spring 96: Tu/Th, 1:15 - 2:30 (Gates 100)




This course covers the fundamental techniques for designing and
analyzing geometric algorithms in two, three, and higher
dimensions. We will give an in-depth coverage of basic geometric data
structures, such as convex hulls, arrangements, Voronoi and Delaunay
diagrams, flat and hierarchical triangulations, partition trees,
etc. We will also survey several important paradigms of geometric
algorithm design, including sweep line/plane methods, randomized
techniques, cuttings and their applications, parametric searching, and
various geometric optimization methods. We will motivate the material
with example problems drawn from application areas such as robotics,
graphics, vision, and geography, and discuss some of the non-trivial
issues involved in implementing geometric algorithms robustly.
Prerequisite: cs161 (data structures and algorithms)



Contact information

Course outline

Course mechanics

Bibliography

Geometric algorithms links



Handouts





Handout 1
: Course facts

Handout 2
: More facts


Homework 1
: due 4/30/96


You can also see directly the full
Handouts directory
.

Contact information:


Instructor:
Leonidas Guibas



E-mail:
guibas@cs.stanford.edu

Office: Gates 3B, Room 374 (723-0304)
Office hours: Thursdays, 3:00-5:00 pm

TA:
Julien Basch



E-mail:
jbasch@cs.stanford.edu

Office: Gates 3B, Room 376 (723-1604)
Office hours: Wednesdays, 11:00-12:00 and 2:00-3:00 pm



Course Outline:



There is now so much material in computational geometry that probably
a full-year course is needed to cover all the basic techniques.
Nevertheless, given some algorithmic preparation, we can cover lots
of ground even in one quarter. Below is a list of topics to be
covered---but we do not promise to cover them in the order listed.


Geometric fundamentals
Computational primitives in two and three dimensions and their
implementation; models of computation and lower bounds;
geometric duality.
Convexity
Algorithms for convex hulls of point sets in two and three
dimensions; convex polygons---properties and algorithms.
Arrangements
The combinatorics of line arrangements, including the zone
theorem. Sweep-line methods for arrangements---topological
sweep. Davenport-Schinzel sequences. Many-face problems.
Proximity problems
Voronoi Diagrams and Delaunay triangulations; algorithms and
applications.
Geometric searching
Point-location in planar subdivisions. Fractional cascading
and other efficient data-structuring techniques.
Three-dimensional analogs.
Partition trees and range searching
The ham-sandwich theorem; decimation methods; range-searching
problems of various kinds.
Triangulations
Triangulating a simple polygon; reductions among geometric
problems; decompositions of polyhedra; questions of optimality.
Random sampling techniques
Random sampling for partitioning; randomized incremental
algorithms; $\epsilon$-nets; making randomized algorithms
deterministic. Cuttings and their applications.
Visibility and shortest path problems
Visibility graphs and their uses; Euclidean minimum spanning
tree and shortest path problems.
Robustness in geometric computation
Issues in topological consistency; handling of degeneracies;
robust algorithms.



Course mechanics:



Class hours:
Tuesday, Thursday, 1:15 - 2:30 in Gates 100
Text:
The main text for the course is a reader, comprised
of a number of survey articles plus lecture notes scribed with the
help of students in previous years of this class. A second recommended
reader is a preprint of the forthcoming book
Computational
Geometry by Example
, by Mark de Berg, Mark van Kreveld, Mark
Overmars, and Otfried Schwarzkopf. This book uses examples from
application areas to motivate all the main structures and techniques
of computational geometry and may become the main text for this course
in future years.  These two readers are available at the Stanford
Bookstore.
Homeworks, Exams, Grading, etc:
The course will have three substantial and mathematically
challenging homeworks of the "pencil-and-paper" type. There will be no
final exam, but there will be a midterm whose function will be to test
breath but not depth.  For the final grade we will count each of the
homeworks and the midterm as 25% of the grade.
Please do the
homework
--there is no other way to learn the material.
Homework/midterm schedule:


Homework
Handed out
Due




HW 1

Tuesday, 16 April
Tuesday, 30 April

HW 2
Tuesday, 30 April
Tuesday, 14 May

HW 3
Tuesday, 14 May
Tuesday, 4 June

Midterm
in class
Tuesday, 21 May





Geometric algorithms links


On-line
geometry litterature database
, a BibTeX database of computational
geometry related papers (see
database
description
),
CRC
Geometry Formulas and Facts
,
Jeff Erickson's
Computational Geometry
page,
David Eppstein's
Geometry in Action
page,
The Geometry Center's
Directory of Computational Geometry Software
.
VideHoc
: a program to visualize duality (runs only on SGI).











jbasch@cs.stanford.edu

(last updated: April 1, 1996)


