Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 19:10:56 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1-dev
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: Apache=gs359345849035456149; path=/


EECS452's Home Page






EECS 452.

D
IGITAL

S
IGNAL

P
ROCESSING

D
ESIGN

L
ABORATORY



Prerequisite: #316. Signals and Systems.

Architectural features of single-chip DSP processors will be introduced in
lecture. Specifically, the arithmetic, memory organization, pipelining
strategies, and the use of special on-chip hardware, e.g., multipliers,
barrel shifters, will be emphasized.  Illustrative examples will be given
using representative DSP processors such as the
TMS320C25
,
the
TMS320C50
, the AT&T DSP16, the
Motorola
DSP56001, the
TMS320C30
, the AT&T DSP32, the
Motorola
DSP96002, etc.
Laboratory experiments
using both the TMS320C25 and the DSP56001 will incluse A/D and D/A conversion
sampling, real-time FIR and IIR digital filter implementations, and a
twelve-week real-time
DSP project
of the student's
choice.  The laboratory will also introduce the students to the
state-of-the-art equipment for DSP design and verification. Specifically, the
Tektronix 2642 Analyzer and the DSP Technology SigLabs are versatile
multi-domain (time and frequency) instruments capable of spectrum, network,
and transient analysis of real-time DSP systems working in the audio
frequency range.

In the remainder of this page, we provide an introduction to the course and the
laboratory.  A copy of the introductory handout to the course and the course
syllabus can be obtained in postscript format by clicking
here
.


Instructor


Professor David J. Anderson

Room: 4112 EECS Building
Phone: 763-4367
e-mail: dja@umich.edu

Teaching Assistant


Ketan Patel

xxx EECS Building
Phone: 76xxx
e-mail: xxxxx


INTRODUCTORY REMARKS



Grading
:
Laboratory     25%
Lab Reports    20%
Exam           20%
Final Project  35%


Laboratory
:
The structured laboratory segment will count for 25% of the total
grade, based on participation and successful completion of the weekly
exercises.  Each group will be asked some general questions on each
experiment.  The intent is to examine the students' understanding of the
current experiment and if they have developed an adequate understanding
of the assembly code.


Lab Reports
:
A report on each experiment is required by each group of two students.
The lab reports will count for 15% of the total grade.  These reports
should contain a title page with a brief summary, an introduction, a
description of the experimental setup, a results section, and a discussion
and conclusion section.  The reports need not be lengthy and need not be
typed.  However, try to be complete and professional in your presentation.


Exams
:
The midterm exam will cover fundamental topics introduced in lecture and
experiments.  The Exam will be open book, notes and lab reports.


Final Project
:
You will be given a list of suggested project topics by the end of the second
week of class.  The projects emphasize real-time DSP applications in, for example,
speech, music, medical, etc.  The project will typically be a design of a
software or hardware algorithm for a real-time DSP system.  You are encouraged
to form teams of 4 to 5 students for each project (with a balanced distribution
of SW/HW design skills in addition to the DSP algorithm expertise).  Smaller
teams are also acceptable if the scope of the project of interest so demands, or
if there are difficulties in forming larger teams.  Each group is required to
submit a one-page
Pre-Proposal
by the end of the fourth week of class.
A form will be provided for filling out the pre-proposal.  A
Final Project
Proposal
, based on the instructors feedback to the pre-proposal, will be
due by the beginning of the sixth week of class.  A
Task Timeline
should
be included in the final project proposal.  A one-page
Progress Report
is required from each group weekly after the
Final Project Report
has
been approved.  You will have free access to the laboratory while you are
working on your project.  However, you are expected to show up during the regular
laboratory time to demonstrate the current status of your project to the
instructor or the TA.  This will, hopefully, allow you to keep track of your
progress towards your final goal.  Successful completion of the project is very
important.  However, your effort to solve unforeseen problems and your engineering
approach will be rewarded.  A final project report will be due by the end of the
semester and a technical presentation will be scheduled shortly afterwards.

LABORATORY EXERCISES




Lab 1: Introduction to the TMS320C25 and
the AIB


Lab 2: Introduction to the DSP56001


Lab 3: Finite Impulse Response
Filtering


Lab 4: Infinite Impulse Response
Filtering


Lab 5: Special Considerations in IIR
Filters


Lab 6: Fast Fourier Transforms





FINAL PROJECTS




Self-Steering Microphone Array System


Voice Encoding and Synthesis System


HMM-Based Speaker-Independent Limited-Vocabulary
Speech Recognition System



LABORATORY EQUIPMENT


A complete discussion of the lab facilities is presented in the report,

Digital Signal Processing in EECS 452
.
A postscript copy of it can be obtained by clicking on the title.  The list
below shows the major components of that lab:




Texas Instruments



TMS320C25
Fixed-Point DSP Software Developmeny System

TMS320C50
Fixed-Point DSP Evaluation Module

TMS320C50
Fixed-Point DSP Starter Kit

TMS320C30
Floating-Point DSP Eevaluation Module

TMS320C40
Floating-Point DSP Parallel Processing System



Motorola


DSP56001 Fixed-Point DSP Application Development System
DSP56002 Fixed-Point DSP Application Development System
DSP96000 Floating-Point DSP Application Development System
DSP16ADC Evaluation Board

DSP Technology


SigLab


Tektronix



TDS 310 Digital Oscilloscope


TDS 410 Digital Oscilloscope

Tektronix 2642A Analyzer



RELATED WWW SITES



Ariel

White Mountain DSP

Texas Instruments DSP Solutions

TI TMS320 DSP Family

1997 TI DSP Solutions Challenge

DSPnet

Innovative Integration

Spectron

Spectrum Digital, INC.



