MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 21:33:06 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 6694
Last-Modified: Monday, 24-Jun-96 02:22:29 GMT


Gruia-Catalin Roman














The Concurrent Systems Group





Mobile Computing



Formal Design Methods


Program Visualization















Gruia-Catalin
Roman

Professor,
Department of
Computer Science

Director,
Computer
Visualization Laboratory

Chair,
Doctoral Program Committee

Jolley 514, (314) 935-6190, roman@cs.wustl.edu




Doctoral research is academic education at its very best.  There are few
more satisfying forms of teaching: a one-on-one apprenticeship that enhances
knowledge of student and teacher alike;  an intense effort motivated by a
self-constructed vision;  and a gradual refinement of taste and style in
choosing problems and solution strategies.


Graduate Students

The key ingredients of our group's success are a special camaraderie,
exceptional software development talent, formal thinking skills, and the
emphasis on quality publications.



Delbert Hart


James Hu


Peter McCann


Amy Murphy



Research Activities

The Concurrent Systems Group (CSG) is dedicated to extending the applicability of formal design methods to a broad range of software development areas, including industrial-grade applications.  A distinguishing feature of our research is the integration of innovating program visualization techniques in the design, monitoring, and exploration of both concurrent systems and formal specifications.



Concurrent Systems Group
-- detailed research agenda and recent results

Publications


Technical
reports


Grants


Recent graduates and visitors


Distributed Computing Group
-- colleagues working in closely related areas


Research Environment

Much of our life revolves around the Computer Visualization Laboratory (CVL).  Its eclectic collection of Macintoshes, SGI's, broadcast quality video equipment, scanners, printers, etc. provides a studio atmosphere in which aesthetics, writing, research, and software development coexist.



Computer Visualization Laboratory
-- unique computing, visualization, and video production capabilites.

Pavane
-- an advanced declarative visualization system.


The Temptation of Saint Anthony
by Hieronymus Bosch
-- a 12,000 piece puzzle that shows that no beautiful task is too hard for us.


Teaching Assignments


Courses
I like to teach are progressive,  exhibit conceptual integrity (a unifying theme or vision), and have interesting homeworks.



CS456
-- Software Engineering Workshop (first taught in 1977, one of the oldest software engineering classes in the nation, an experience rather than a class, a simulation of the realities of industrial software development, industry tested material)
CS576S -- Distributed Systems Design (formal models of communication, real-time computing, security, multimedia, and mobile computing)
CS563T -- Concurrent Algorithms: Shared Data (formal specification and derivation of concurrent programs using the UNITY logic and notation)


Biography
Gruia-Catalin Roman has been on the faculty of Washington University in
Saint Louis since 1976. He is a professor in the Department of Computer
Science and director of the Computer Visualization Laboratory.  His
current research deals with models, languages, visualization methods,
and design methodologies for concurrent systems.  His previous
research has been concerned with requirements and design methodologies,
interactive high speed computer vision algorithms, formal languages,
biomedical simulation, computer graphics, and distributed databases.  He
is the recipient of an IEEE Computer Society Outstanding Paper Award.

Roman is also a software engineering consultant.  His list of past
clients includes the government and several large firms in the U.S.A. and
Japan.  His consulting work involves development of custom software
engineering methodologies and training programs.

Roman was a Fulbright Scholar at the University of Pennsylvania, in
Philadelphia, where he received a B.S. degree (1973), a M.S. degree
(1974), and a Ph.D.  degree (1976), all in computer science.  He is a
member of Tau Beta Pi, ACM, and IEEE Computer Society.


Last modified: Sun Jun 23 21:22:29 CDT 1996



