Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 21:34:17 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4
Content-type: text/html


George Varghese's Home Page



George Varghese



Associate  Professor
Washington University






Snail mail:

Washington University, Campus Box 1045/Bryan 509
One Brookings Drive
Saint Louis, MO 63130-4899

Office: Bryan 405D
314-935-4963 (office)
314-935-7302 (fax)
Email:
varghese@askew.wustl.edu



RESEARCH INTERESTS

I spent 10 years designing real network protocols (some of which are in
products) for DECNET.  However, I later did my Ph.D. research in the
theory of protocol design.  For more details, see my
vita
.
For recent papers, click
here
.
My goal is to fruitfully combine my
experience in distributed systems, both theory and practice.
My most recent work in network protocols includes the first O(log(log(n))
algorithm for fair queuing, new techniques for fragmentation and reassembly,
and new load balancing protocols.  Recent work in distributed algorithms
include a result that shows that crash failures can cause almost all
asynchronous protocols to fail (assuming that nodes keep no NVRAM across
crashes), and techniques for making window protocols self-stabilizing.
Web pointers to .ps files can be found below.
The work on distributed algorithms is supported by
an ONR Young Investigator Award and a grant from NSF; the work in network
protocols is supported by an NSF Research Initiation Award.
Past work on network protocols includes techniques for speeding up
packet processing based on adding fields to packets, making hop-by-hop
flow control both efficient and reliable, efficient fair queuing
using deficit round robin, and efficient timer algorithms.  Patents
for past work include patents for bridge protocols, switch design, the OSI
routing update protocol, and rate based flow control.
Past work on distributed algorithms
includes (together with colleagues at MIT and Univ of Texas) a set of
general techniques to make protocols self-stabilizing. A protocol is
self-stabilizing if it begins to work correctly regardless of what
state the protocol starts in: thus self-stabilization is an
abstraction of a strong fault-tolerance property.   Some of the
techniques we have discovered (for making protocols self-stabilizing)
include local checking and correction,
local checking and global correction, compiling  synchronous protocol,
counter flushing, and window washing.
I hope that coupling these two themes
(distributed algorithms and network protocols, theory and practice)
will provide a rich synergy both in terms of research and coursework.
For example, I have taught the network protocol class for senior Wash U
undergraduates for three semesters, and have taught them some
protocol design techniques.  I taught the Distributed Algorithms class in the
Spring of 95 and taught a tutorial on applying techniques from
distributed algorithms in SIGCOMM 95.   I illustrated the theory using many
real-world protocol examples.  I will teach a tutorial on efficient
protocol implementation techniques in SIGCOMM 96.


RECENT PAPERS
My recent papers on both networking and
self-stabilization can be obtained from the web.
To look at a brief description of
available papers, and then navigate to papers you would like, please click
here
.

QUOTES
For some quotes on things I believe in, please click
here
.

EDUCATION


PhD in Computer Science -- MIT (2/93)
MS in Computer Science -- NCSU (8/83)
B.Tech in Electrical Engineering -- I.I.T. Bombay, India (8/81)


STUDENTS



Girish Chandranmenon
.

Current projects:
trading packet headers for packet processing,
efficient fair queuing, new techniques for fragmentation and reassembly.
During Summer 96, working with Steve Deering on IPv6 related issues.

Mahesh Jayaram
.

Current projects:
Determining the fault-span of crash failures,
efficient packet filters, and improving routing protocol performance.

Adam Costello
.

Current projects:
UNIX Implementation of Timing Wheels,
Self-stabilization by window washing (making window protocols
self-stabilizing), mobile networks.   From Fall 96, will be doing a
Ph.D at Berkeley in the mobile computing group.

CS 423 DOCUMENTS
I"ll start trying to make CS 423 documents available on the web.

To look at a sample midterm please click
here
.
COURSE OUTLINE FOR CS564T
In the spring of 1995, I taught a course on concurrent message
passing algorithms, with emphasis on applications to network protocols.
The course is designed to help students learn how to design protocols
and to apply them to the problems of real networks.   Thus we
illustrate the main ideas using actual protocols from existing networks.
I taught an abbreviated version of that course as a tutorial in SIGCOMM 95.
To look at a course outline for CS 564, please click
here
.
To look at the slides for the SIGCOMM tutorial, please click
here
. Its in landscape format and you may have to "swap landscape"
the file before viewing.


SELF-STABILIZATION INTEREST GROUP

User names registered as of Dec 13th 1994:
sandeep@cs.albany.edu mischu@research.att.com herman@cs.uiowa.edu
kutten@watson.ibm.com cowen@brutus.mts.jhu.edu
burns@nova.bellcore.com loui@geisel.csl.uiuc.edu jhh@cwi.nl kirousis@cti.gr
sriram@cs.uiowa.edu fischer-michael@cs.yale.edu masuzawa@is.aist-nara.ac.jp
garay@watson.ibm.com zaks@cs.ust.hk marco@cs.utexas.edu prasad@cs.dartmouth.edu


SHORT PROJECTS FOR NETWORKING CERTIFICATION COURSE
I am offering only one project currently.  This project involves a
detailed design of a fault-tolerant token ring protocol that can
replace an existing token ring protocol like the IBM Token Ring or
FDDI.  To look at a brief description of this project, please click
here
.

Last updated on October 20, 1994.
varghese@askew.wustl.edu



