Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:53:38 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 12907
Last-modified: Mon, 15 Jul 1996 01:11:34 GMT


Salvatore J. Stolfo








Prof. Salvatore J. Stolfo

Department of Computer Science, Columbia University
, New York, NY 10027

sal@cs.columbia.edu
Member of the
Polytechnic
University Center for Advanced Technology


A Puzzle to Ponder






Can you guess what the image means?  (Keep browsing for the answer.)
By the way, the topic of this page is constantly under development until
that ultimate day......


Past Research Interests and Activities:




Learning Problem-solving Heuristics

My thesis Research (1976-1979, See IJCAI 1979)
The Massively Parallel Dado Machine(~1979-~1989)

Hardware

Software

Patents

Current status:
DADO was licensed to a company and abruptly left academia
for its obvious commercialization.  See
The San Francisco Examiner
article on page A-1 of the Feb. 5, 1996 issue (click on
Previous
Examiners
button)
for some
information about its current status. The final chapter on DADO
has not yet been written! Stay tuned!
Deductive and Expert Databases

ACE - The First Deductive (Expert) Database System (1980 - ~1982)

Active/Deductive Database
System Reorganization and "Predictive" Load Balancing (1990 - ~1994)

The PARADISER system (1990-~1994)

Parallel Rule-based Systems (Then and Now) (1980 - ~1994)

Incremental Rule Processing in Parallel Environments (1990 - ~1994)

"Real-world" Application
Studies

ALEXSYS - Mortgage-backed Security Trading in Parallel. (1988 - ~1990)

Sponsors:




(D)ARPA


Office of Naval Research


New York State Science and Technology Foundation CAT Program


Citicorp


Intel


IBM




Current Interests: Parallel/Distributed Intelligent Systems (1990's - )



KNOWLEDGE DISCOVERY in
DATABASE and DATA MINING (KDD/DM)

My former days of expert systems research, and parallel hardware design
and implementation were great fun.
But now I am specializing in parallel/distributed processing for
Machine
Learning

(or
alternatively click here)
,
Intelligent Information Systems
,
Knowledge Discovery in Databases and Data
Mining
, Financial Systems Computing, and Active Databases.
Check out upcoming events like
KDD96
, or
AAAI96
(I'm on the PC of
both) and journal sources like
Kluwer's journals
in this area.
I am a member of  the editorial board of the
Journal on
Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery
. Please take a look at
our Call for Papers.
See also the page on the
Parallel and Distributed
Intelligent Systems Lab
for a more thorough treatment of my
current research activities and relationship to industrial users.


MERGE-PURGE: Intelligently Integrating Heterogenous Databases

Although  the term
merge/purge
is
used by our Citicorp collaborators and other commercial organizations,
it is probably better termed
The Data Scrubbing, or Data Cleaning Problem
.
(That's a term Mike Stonebraker used to describe
this problem--and Stonebraker-terminology is almost always colorful
and illuminating.) Our most recent success on data supplied by the
Child Welfare Department of the State of Washington is memoralized in
the
letter viewable by clicking here.


META-LEARNING for Scalable Data Mining

Meta-learning
is a term we coined for an approach gaining in popularity in the DM/KDD
community these days.
The essential idea is to combine a number of separately learned
classifiers or models in such a fashion that machine learning can be scaled
to large (and inherently distributed) databases, and
(ideally) accuracy can be boosted. But how does one combine separately
learned classifiers? We consider that question as a learning problem and apply
machine learning algorithms to "meta-learn" how underlying classifiers
behave or correlate with eachother. Hmmmmm...

ELECTRONIC COMMERCE and
FINANCIAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS:
Widely Distributed Data Mining and Fraud Detection

My current interest lies in the future of large scale network-based
information systems, especially
Fraud and
Intrusion Detection
.
We are studying methods to apply learning agents, and Meta-learning agents
in WAN financial information systems to learn how to detect fraudlent
transactions. This work is directly relevant to
Information Warfare
problems that will undoubtedly occur in the future. (These problems
probably occur today but no one has yet learned how to detect it globally!
Stay tuned!)
This research is being conducted in collaboration with our friends
at the
Financial Services Technology Consortium.
,

Integrating Multiple Models: AAAI96 Workshop

Many researchers are working on similar techniques for integrating
multiple learned models.  So Phil Chan, David Wolpert and myself
are organizing a Workshop at AAAI-96 called
Integrating Multiple Models
for Improving and Scaling Machine Learning.

See the workshop agenda and call for papers
. Please participate
directly if you are interested in pursuing these ideas or if you have
new results to share with the community.

Speeding Up Monte Carlo
Simulations

I've also studied parallelization strategies for Monte Carlo simulations.
Check out
Dynamic Neighborhood Bounding
, a simple heuristic strategy
to save on expensive function computations that is also amenable to
fast parallel execution. (Follow the link to "papers".)

Collaborators



Financial Services Technology Consortium (FSTC)

I've been working with the
Financial Services Technology Consortium
(FSTC) having played some small role in its early formation.
The FSTC's "Fraud Project"
is the focus of our joint effort.
See the description on
Fraud and Intrusion Detection in Financial Information Systems using
Meta-learning Agents
for details about our approach.

Citicorp

My relationship with Citicorp
was established through my consultancies and research relationships
with the Citicorp Technology Office. Working with companies like
Citicorp is  a wonderful opportunity to learn about
real-world problems and datasets for use in establishing benchmarks and
controlled studies of fundamental technologies.
My collaboration with Citicorp and other organizations
lead to the development of a number of
fundamental technologies that were demonstrated in "real-life" financial
applications.  Some of these are described  in this web page. Seek them
out.

System Management ARTS

SMARTS is a spinoff from the research lab of
Professor Yechiam Yemini
.
Their SOS agent infrastructure is being used in our work on meta-learning
agents for fraud and intrusion detection.


SOME RECENT PUBLICATIONS

Better have a postscript viewer configured before downloading!

Sponsors:



(D)ARPA (BAA99603 Survivability of Information Systems Program: Intrusion Detection)


NSF CISE Database and Expert System Program


NSF CISE Knowledge Models and Cognitive Systems Program

New York State Science and Technology Foundation CAT Program

Citicorp




Contact Points and my PhD students
I'm always looking for good people to work with me.  How would you like
to help me build an agent-based learning
system  operating over the Internet for Detecting Fraud in Electronic
Commerce? Send a note of interest and we might talk about it...
Send email to
Sal@cs.columbia.edu
.

You can find out much more about these topics by contacting me
directly or
MY PhD STUDENTS
, former and current.
(Maybe that includes you sometime in the future?)

The Answer


Did you guess what the image means?


My Greatest Achievement in Life

One last thought (for now). Of all my accomplishments,
absolutely none come close to
my true achievement
in life.

Fun at my home town
And I especially enjoy doing all sorts of things for my community
mostly through my kids' schools. Some of you may even have heard
of a special event in Ridgewood, New Jersey where we live. Its called



DADS NIGHT.


Ridgewood has all sorts of interesting events going on. Another one that
I am happy to be involved with is



SUPER SCIENCE SATURDAY.


Visit the homepages of both for a peek at what's up in Ridgewood!
And if you haven't figured out what I might look like
well check this out too.


Links


Parallel and Distributed Intelligent Systems Laboratory

Department of Computer Science

Columbia University

Polytechnic University Center for Advanced Technology





