Date: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 20:40:54 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thursday, 07-Sep-95 17:58:58 GMT
Content-length: 2552
Chip Weems Home Page

Chip Weems Home Page


Charles C. (Chip) Weems received the B.S. (with honors) and M.A. degrees
from Oregon State University in 1977 and 1979, respectively, and the Ph.D. from the
University of Massachusetts at Amherst in 1984. All degrees are in Computer
Science. Since 1984 he has directed the specialized parallel architectures research group at
the University of Massachusetts, where he is an Associate Professor.
Working together with Hughes Research Laboratories, under ARPA support, Dr. Weems'
group developed a heterogeneous parallel processor to support real-time, knowledge-based
computer vision. A prototype slice of the architecture has been built and a second
generation of the design is under construction. Dr. Weems also lead an effort to develop a
DARPA-administered vision benchmark for parallel processors.

His research interests include associative processing and
architectures, parallel architectures to support low-, intermediate-, and high-level
computer vision, benchmarks for vision, heterogeneous parallel architectures, heterogeneous
parallel programming languages, architectural issues and hardware support for hard real-time
systems, theory of parallel algorithms and architectures, and parallel vision algorithms.
He is the author of numerous technical articles, has served on several program
committees, chaired a workshop on benchmarks for vision, given invited talks, edited
special issues of Machine Vision and Applications and IEEE Computer, and is also the co-author
of three widely used introductory computer science texts.  Dr. Weems is a member of
IEEE, ACM, and the IAPR Technical Committee on special purpose architectures.

Chip Weems
Associate Professor
Dept. of Computer Science
University of Massachusetts
Amherst, MA 01003-4610

phone:   (413) 545-3163
fax:      (413)545-1249



Additional Information

Courses I teach

Academic and industrial committees and boards

Conference committees

Bibliography of articles

My textbooks

What I do in my spare time


Send me e-mail


Back to Computer Science Department home page.


