Date: Tue, 14 Jan 1997 22:07:34 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 20 Oct 1996 06:22:09 GMT
Content-length: 2897
Arie E. Kaufman



Arie E. Kaufman




Research Interests

o	Computer Graphics
o	Visualization
o	User Interfaces
o	Virtual Reality
o	Multimedia
o	Computer Architecture
You can find out more about my research projects by looking at the
Visualization Lab
page. There you will find information about
VolVis
,
our freely distributed visualization system;
Cube
,
our special-purpose volume rendering architecture;
PVR
,
our parallel volume rendering package;
3D Virtual Colonoscopy
,
our flythrough navigations through the colon;
and many others.

Address



Arie E. Kaufman
Department of Computer Science
State University of New York at Stony Brook
Stony Brook, NY 11794-4400, USA

ari@cs.sunysb.edu



Short Biography
Arie E. Kaufman is a Leading Professor of
Computer Science
and Radiology at the
State University of New York
at Stony Brook,
where he
is the director of the Cube project for volume visualization supported
by the National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, Hughes
Aircraft Company, Hewlett-Packard Company, Silicon Graphics Company,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Biotechnology, and the
State of New York.  His research interests include volume
visualization; computer graphics architectures, algorithms, and
languages; user interfaces; scientific visualization; and multimedia.
Kaufman is the Editor-in-Chief of the new
IEEE Transaction on Visualization and Computer Graphics (TVCG)
.
He has lectured widely and published numerous
technical papers
in these areas, including the IEEE
tutorial book on Volume Visualization.  He has given several courses
on Volume Visualization for SIGGRAPH, Visualization, VBC, CGI,
EUROGRAPHICS, GI, and IBM.  He has been the Papers Chair and Program
co-Chair for Visualization '90-'94 and co-Chair for several
EUROGRAPHICS Graphics Hardware Workshops, and the chairman of the IEEE
CS Technical Committee on Computer Graphics.  He received a BS in
Mathematics and Physics from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in
1969, an MS in Computer Science from the Weizmann Institute of
Science, Rehovot, in 1973 and a PhD in Computer Science from the
Ben-Gurion University, Israel, in 1977.


