Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 23:29:31 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Thu, 31 Oct 1996 20:00:37 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5003



Nancy Ide







Nancy Ide


Associate Professor and Chair
Department of Computer Science
Vassar College


Directeur de Recherche Invitée
Laboratoire Parole et Langage
Université de Provence










Department of Computer Science
Vassar College
Poughkeepsie, New York 12601 USA
tel : (+1) 914 437 5988
fax : (+1) 914 437 7498
e-mail :
ide@cs.vassar.edu


Laboratoire Parole et Langage
CNRS & Université de Provence
29, Avenue Robert Schuman
13621 Aix-en-Provence Cedex  1, France
tel : (+33) 42 95 36 34
fax : (+33) 42 59 50 96
e-mail:
ide@univ-aix.fr






Nancy Ide is Associate Professor and chair of the
Computer Science Department at Vassar College. She has been a member of the CS faculty
at Vassar since 1982.  She earned her B.A., B.S., M.A., M.S., and Ph.D. from
The Pennsylvania State University.
In addition to core computer science courses, Professor Ide teaches courses in Language Theory and Automata, Compiler Design, and Natural Language Processing.
Professor Ide's area of specialization is computational linguistics. She has written a textbook for
introductory computing as well as numerous papers in the fields of
computational linguistics, computational lexicography, and humanities
computing.  She recently stepped down after ten years as president of the Association for
Computers and the Humanities. She is co-editor-in-chief of the journal
Computers and the Humanities
, and co-edits two book series:
Text, Language, and Speech Tecnhology
, with
Kluwer Academic Publishers
, and
Research in Humanities Computing
, with Oxford University Press. In addition to co-editing several volumes in the
Research in Humanities Computing
series, Professor Ide recently co-edited
The Text Encoding Initiative: Background and Context
, published by
Kluwer Academic Publishers
.
In 1987, Professor Ide initiated the international
Text Encoding Initiative (TEI)
, supported by the National
Endowment for the Humanities, the European Union, and the Andrew K. Mellon Foundation.
This ongoing international project produced the
TEI
Guidelines
for Electronic Text Encoding and Interchange
in 1994. These guidelines are an application of SGML (ISO 8879:1986, Information Processing--Text
and Office Systems--Standard Generalized Markup
Language) designed to enable the encoding of the full range of text types for use in different applications.
In 1988 Professor Ide co-established a
collaborative project
between Vassar College's
Department of Computer Science and the
Laboratoire Parole et Langage
(LP&L) of the
The Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique
(CNRS) in Aix-en-Provence, France. The US portion of the collaborative project is supported
by a grant from the National Science Foundation (NSF RUI grant
IRI-9413451). The project has been concerned with
the extraction and structuring of lexical and semantic knowledge extracted from machine readable dictionaries, and has grown to be one of a few major international projects in computational lexicography. Currently the project's focus is on the representation and of linguistic corpora and the development of tools for linguistic corpus annotation, and on the development of a
Corpus Encoding Standard
for such corpora.
Through the Vassar/CNRS collaboration Professor Ide has been involved in creating and is currently working within the European projects
MULTEXT
and
MULTEXT-EAST
. She is also a member of the European project
EAGLES
, in which she serves as head of the
EAGLES Text Representation subgroup
.


NAVIGATOR

|
Top
|
CS Dept home page
|




