Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 22:02:27 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.2
Last-modified: Tue, 08 Oct 1996 13:19:33 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3339




NCSU/CSC: William G. Scott Jr.






William G. Scott Jr.




Assistant Department Head
Mr. Scott is the Assistant Department Head and a  member of the teaching
faculty in the Computer Science Department in the College of
Engineering at North Carolina State University (NCSU).  He teaches a
senior level Management Information Systems course, is faculty liaison to
the
student
chapter of DPMA
, and is a member of the
Bright Leaf Chapter of DPMA
.
Mr. Scott also is Program Advisor to the
Information
Systems Education
(ISE)
Program series of short courses,  presented by the Office of Continuing
Education and Professional Development in association with the Computer
Science Department.  This program offers technical,  management,  and
communication skills development courses to the local government and
business communities.
He has a solid background of experience and accomplishments in
information systems, strategic planning, telecommunications, and finance
with major corporations such as Rockwell International and Alcoa.  This
consists of over 22 years of line and staff responsibility strengthened by
organizational, motivational, and problem-solving skills.
Mr. Scott's primary responsibilities as Assistant Department Head include:

Serves as scheduling officer for the department.  Recruits and mentors
the adjunct teaching faculty.  This supports all of the CSC courses for our
graduate and undergraduate students.

Supervises an operating staff of five SPA employees who maintain all
computer systems (hardware,  software,  and networks) that support the
education and research activities of the department.

Coordinates the department's corporate education program,  which currently
has a major activity with
Northern Telecom
.
Manages external events such as
Open house,  Tailgate '9
x
,  and the SITE program.

Coordinates the renovations and repairs to all CSC facilities of over
32,000 sq. ft. located in three separate buildings which houses all education
and research activities for the department.

Primary liaison between the Department and several of its constituencies,
including students and the public.  Monitors and negotiates student concerns
and provides students with career counseling.

Oversees the efficient operation of the administrative office,  in
coordination with the department's administrative assistant.



Department of Computer Science, Box 8206

College of Engineering
,

North Carolina State University
,
Raleigh, NC 27695

(v2.0/Oct-08-96/scott)


