Date: Monday, 25-Nov-96 21:51:25 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.1
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 17:22:29 GMT

Joe Pfeiffer's Home Page



Welcome to Joe Pfeiffer's home page!


Email:
pfeiffer@cs.nmsu.edu



Biography


Research Interests


Personal Interests


Classwork Stuff


Linux Compaq Concerto Pen Driver


Links to Other Pages


MML Stuff



Biography
I earned my BSc. (1979), MSc. (1982), and PhD.
(1986) degrees at the University of Washington.  Since
1984, I've been an assistant professor in the
Department of Computer Science
at
New Mexico State University.


Research Interests
Current
research interests include
visual languages
and parallel computer architectures.
My current visual programming research centers on Ludwig2, a language for
data structure manipulation based on graph grammars.
Here's the HTML version
of the most recent paper, presented at the 1995 IEEE Symposium on Visual
Languages.


Personal Interests
Some of my personal interests are hunting and fishing, rebuilding Dodge
musclecars, building model rockets, and practicing martial arts.
I hold a shodan in Sanzyuryu Jiujitsu
I'm fortunate enough to be married to
Heather
, and
to have two children (Joel and Becca).


Classwork Stuff


CS 372, Fall 1996

CS 474, Fall 1996

Motif GUI example



Linux Compaq Concerto Pen Driver


There are some slight incompatibilities between Linux 1.2.11 and 2.0.0.
Rather than try to #ifdef them, I'm just going to leave both my 1.1.2 and my
new 1.1.3 distributions available for a while.  Unless somebody needs an
a.out version of the new driver, I'll just put the ELF version out.  If
you're running Linux 1.2.11 you need the 1.1.2 version; if you're running 2.0.0
you need the 1.1.3 version; if you're running 1.2.12 or 1.2.13 I suspect you
probably need the 1.1.2 version; if you're running something from 1.3 you're
on your own!
In order to obtain the distribution, download either the
1.1.2 a.out
, the
1.1.2 ELF
, or the
1.1.3
version,
gunzip it, untar it, and follow the directions in the README file.
More information on the Concerto is available from the
Compaq Concerto Fan's Home Page


Links to Other Pages

Here are some pages I find interesting


The VL '96 Call For Papers is available!


Reasonable Drivers Unanimous Home Page


Information on the ``World's *Cheapest* Way to get USA Magazine Subscriptions
delivered to *any* country'' e-mail spam
Who's doing it...  his address...
his phone number...

The Laboratory for Pen-based Computing and Visual Languages at the Computer Science Department
of Washington University in St. Louis
(this page was the source of my
little no-mice picture).

This is the best car-related page I've found.


The Mopar Mailing List


Dragnet Home Page


Michael Beard's (aka That Damn Kid's) Guide to Bracket Racing


Stolen Car Database


Chrysler (r.a.m.) Newsgroup Page


The St. John's Anime Film Society Homepage


A Sherlock Holmes Page


NASA Spacelink


The National Rifle Association


Many, many links relating to hunting, meat-eating, taxidermy...


My advisor, Steve Tanimoto



MML stuff

Here is the MML logo!  We have permission from Chrysler to use this on items for the Mopar Mailing List/Internet Mopar Club in ways which would not embarrass Chrysler Corp or us.


The PostScript source for the logo is
here
.


