Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 20:33:50 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 24 Jul 1996 20:35:42 GMT
Content-length: 4737

Deepak Kumar's Home Page

Deepak Kumar

Click here to see
what I am up to

Welcome to my not so formal and not so structured home page.
No, this home page is not under construction, it is undergoing
a steady evolution. It will serve to provide a glimpse into
my life, and related things.
I work on Belief-Desire-Intention (BDI,
)
architectures. This research falls in the realm of Artificial
Intelligence. The task is to build models of rational cognitive
agents that are endowed with beliefs, desires, and intentions.
Most of my work has so far been carried in conjuction with the
SNePS Research Group.

SNePS is a semantic network processing system. The illustration
below shows a SNePS representation of the sentences:

All humans are mortal.


Socrates is human.



The above illustration is from January 1991 issue of Scientific American article
Silicon babies
where
Stu Shapiro
was interviewed after I had
presented some results from my thesis at the AAAI Spring Symposium on
Integrated AI Architectures.
In the summer of 1994, I spent some time traveling in Southern Utah.
The pictures below are of
Newspaper Rock




People from various eras have left their marks on this rock. A gathering
place of ideas new and old. Sort of what I would like to create in
the
cyberspace
. Check out some of these efforts on
Serendip
.
At Bryn Mawr College, among other things, we are in the process of
evolving a new program in
Computer Science.



Available Publications


Deepak Kumar & Stuart C. Shapiro,

The OK BDI Architecture

(postscript ~181k),
IJAIT (International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Tools), World
Scientific Publishing, Forthcoming in March 1995. An earlier version
appeared in Yfantis (editor), Intelligent Systems, Kluwer Academic
Publishers, 1995.
Deepak Kumar & Richard Wyatt,

Undergraduate AI and its Non-imperative Prerequisite

(postscript ~85k),
ACM SIGART Special Issue on Artificial Intelligence Education,
Kumar & Hearst (editors), ACM SIGART, Volume 6, Number 2, April 1995.
An earlier version also appeared in the Working notes of the American
Association of Artificial Intelligence Fall Symposium on Improving the
Instruction of AI (New Orleans, LA), AAAI Press, November 1994.
An HTML version is now available.

Deepak Kumar & Stuart C. Shapiro,

Acting in Service of Inference (and
vice versa
)

(postscript ~130k),
Proceedings of FLAIRS-94 (Seventh Florida AI Research Symposium),
Dankel & Stewman (editors), Florida AI Research Society, May 1994.
Deepak Kumar,

From Beliefs and Goals to Intentions and Actions: An
Amalgamated Model of Inference and Acting.

(compressed postscript ~426k), Ph.D. Dissertation,
Department of Computer Science, State University of New York at Buffalo,
Buffalo, NY 14260, 1993.



Reading About the Net


Herb Brody,
Internet@crossroads

Technology Review
, May/June 1995.
Wade Roush,
Hackers: Taking a Byte out of Computer Crime

Technology Review
, April 1995.
Wade Roush,
Spinning a Better Web

Technology Review
, April 1995.



Where to find me...
I live on a computer called blackcat (
dkumar@blackcat.brynmawr.edu
),
a cross-cultural, ancient, as well as a contemporary icon of things good
and magical. Sort of like the Newspaper Rock.




