Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:16:13 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.2
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3112
Last-modified: Thu, 09 May 1996 20:51:04 GMT

Peter Cappello




Peter Cappello
,
Professor



Department of Computer Science
University of California
Santa Barbara, CA 93106-5110


Internet:

cappello@cs.ucsb.edu

Telephone:
(805) 893-4383

Ph.D., Princeton University


Research interests:
Multiprocessor scheduling, self-directed learning.
Peter Cappello received the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from Princeton University in 1982. He joined UC Santa Barbara's Department of Computer Science in July of that year. He is a member of the Department's Algorithms and Computational Complexity group, where he currently investigates multi-processor scheduling, systolic arrays, and the relationship between algorithms and architectures for parallel processing.
He has published journal articles on integer multiplication, special-purpose architectures for digital signal processing, computer-aided design of digital filter chips, parallel algorithms for scientific computations, bit-level systolic algorithms, formal manipulation of systolic algorithms, a programming language for systolic algorithms, and optimal multiprocessor schedules for fundamental algorithms.
Dr. Cappello is a senior member of the Institute for Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and a member of the IEEE Computer Society, the IEEE Signal Processing Society, and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). He also is a member of the ACM Special Interest Group on Algorithms and Computation Theory, and the IEEE Signal Processing Society's Technical Committee on VLSI, of which he served as founding Chair.
He chaired the 1984 IEEE Workshop on VLSI Signal Processing, and co-edited VLSI Signal Processing (IEEE Press). He was Program Co-Chair for the
1994 Int. Conf. on Application Specific Array Processors (ASAP'94), and Conference Co-Chair for
ASAP'95.
Dr. Cappello is a past Associate Editor of the
IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing
, and is on the editorial board of the
Journal of VLSI Signal Processing
.

Publications



Journal Articles

Chapters and Books

Conference Articles


Presentations

Courses

Professional Activity

University Service

Patents


The Computer Science Department's
home page



