Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 20:17:48 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5215
Last-modified: Thu, 18 Aug 1994 20:59:32 GMT
Terrance E. Boult

This is Terry Boult's home page. Mouse my face for a color photo.
I am now a
visiting scientist
in the
Department of Computer Science
of
Columbia University
.  I'm an Associate
professor in the
EE/CS
department
of
Lehigh University
.
My research interests span vision, numeric computing, information-based
complexity, image processing, object oriented software, and light-wave
networks.  To learn more about my research see
TBoult's Research Page

I am also an ex-Columbia-faculty (86-94), an ex-Columbia-graduate
student (MS in CS 83-84, Ph.D. in CS 84-86) and an ex-Columbia-undergraduate
(B.S. Applied Math 79-83).  As a doctoral student I received an IBM graduate
fellowship.  I was awarded an NSF Presidential Young Investigator (1990) and
have support from NSF (3 other grants), ARPA, and industrial funding from
AT&T, IBM, Texas Instruments and Siemens.  Eight CU doctoral students have
graduated under my direction, two of them (G. Wolberg and L. Wolff) have
since won NSF NYI's.  In 1990 I received the NCR Stakeholder award which is
given from time to time to an outstanding EE or CS faculty member at
Columbia.
While I'm not paid by Columbia, I still visit a bit because I have students here
including Ph.D. students:

Lisa Brown

Ming Chao Chiang

Sam Fenster

Tom O'Donnell

and few undergraduates and MS students.

M. "Russell" Sarder

Veronica Hidalgo


I maintain research connections to the
Vision/Robotics Lab
with


Prof Peter
Allen


Prof. John Kender
and

Prof. Shree Nayar

I also have research collaborations with the information-based complexity
group of

Prof. J.F.Traub

Prof. H. Wozniakowski

Visiting Prof. Art Werschulz


S. Paskov
and
S. Baker

See also
CAC-NET
which is  an electronic
conferencing  system for researchers in algorithms and complexity.
I dabble a bit in many things including vision, numeric computing, image
processing, object oriented software, and light-wave networks.  I
also enjoy Baking, board games, boating, cooking, fishing,
guitar,  golf, hiking, poetry, racket sports, scuba diving, skiing/shredding,
swimming, volleyball and water skiing. (When I get the time, of course ;-)
I'm even decent at a few of these, e.g. I
placed first in the 1991-1992 Budweiser/NASTAR All-star ranking for New Jersey
skiers in the 30-39 age bracket with a time was just 5\% behind that
posted by the NASTAR National Pace-setter, U.S. Olympian Matt Grosjean.
For poetry/prose that reflects my philosophy try:

On the common good

Thoroughbred  Code by Calvin Coolidge


For other poetry/prose that I like you can try:

Annabel Lee by Edgar Allen Poe

Selected poems of Emily Dickinson

Kubla_Khan by Samuel Taylor Coleridge

Sonnet To Science by Edgar Allen Poe

The Scholars by  William Butler Yeats

We real cool by  Gwendolyn Brooks

"Terence, This is Stupid stuff..." By A. E. Housman

If you want to sample some of my poetry try:

The Tenure Game

The Tenure Beast

Response to student response to tenure poems

A collection of limericks

Boult's Sonnets

A few thoughts on thoughts by Terrance Boult

Mental Meandering on a Difficult Decision by Terrance Boult




T.E. Boult

Columbia University

Department of Computer Science

450 Computer Science Building

New York, New York 10027

+1 212 939 7119

tboult@cs.columbia.edu or boult@eecs.lehigh.edu

