Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:16:00 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.2
Content-type: text/html



Urs Hoelzle






Urs
Hölzle

My research centers around programming languages (in particular, object-oriented
languages) and their efficient implementation. In my previous life at
Stanford
,
I developed an optimizing compiler for the pure object-oriented language
Self
which removed a large part of the
overhead traditionally associated with message passing. The resulting Self
system outperforms comparable systems (such as commercial Smalltalk implementations)
by a factor of two to three on some medium-sized (500-line) benchmarks.

A second aspect of that project was to integrate optimizing compilation
into an interactive programming environment by developing techniques to
avoid long compilation pauses and to allow source-level debugging of optimized
code.


I'm interested in many aspects of language implementation, such as


compiler optimizations to eliminate message sends (profile-based compiler
optimizations, type inference, etc.),

efficient dispatch techniques for statically- and dynamically-typed
languages,

compiler support for garbage collection ("garbage prevention is
better than garbage collection"),

measurements and analyses of the execution characteristics of (optimized)
object-oriented programs, for example, their instruction mix, cache performance
etc., and

software engineering related aspects of object-oriented programming,
such as profilers and debuggers for OO programs.


Current projects include optimizing compilers or runtime systems for
Self, C++, and Java. Check out the
publications
page
if you're interested in more details. Some of my research results
have recently been incorporated into
Animorphic
Systems
' Smalltalk and Java Virtual Machines.


Address


Urs Hölzle     (
urs@cs.ucsb.edu
)
Department of Computer Science
2111 Engineering I
University of California
Santa Barbara, CA 93106

tel: (805) 893-3960       fax: (805) 893-8553


(If my name displays as "H lzle" on your screen,
then your program can't display that funny "o" with the two dots
on top. Changing the font usually helps; e.g., on my system, Times Regular
doesn't work but Times Small or New Century Schoolbook do. The correct
ASCII way to spell my name is "Hoelzle" -- in German, the "o
with Umlaut" expands into "oe"; but often, people also spell
it as "Holzle. It's pronounced like
this
.)


Other Links

OOCSB home page


CS162: Programming Languages


CS263: Modern Programming Languages
and Their Implementation


CS595J: Readings
in Multimedia, Digital Audio, and Computer Music



Departmental home page


Information for German Speaking
Prospective Graduate Students



©1996 Urs Hölzle.
Last
modified: Thu Aug 15 13:09:02 PDT
No electrons were harmed in the production of this page.

