Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 00:21:33 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tue, 16 Jul 1996 17:13:22 GMT
Content-length: 4404
Peter Druschel


Peter Druschel,
Assistant Professor

Peter's research interests are in operating systems, networks, and
computer architecture.
Fundamentally, the role of an operating system is to abstract the
physical resources of the underlying hardware, and to multiplex these
resources among multiple application programs and users.  In this role
as a mediator between application programs and underlying hardware,
modern operating systems are being challenged on both fronts.  On the
one hand, operating systems are expected to efficiently support a
broad range of application programs, including scientific,
engineering, business, and entertainment applications.  On the other
hand, a single operating system is expected to efficiently run on a
wide range of computer systems, ranging from PDAs and personal
computers to parallel supercomputers, all connnected by networks with
widely differing performance characteristics.
Peter's long-term research goal is to develop an operating system
that can be configured to run on radically different distributed
hardware platforms, and whose services can be dynamically customized
and extended to efficiently support specific applications. Towards
this end, his research focuses on two issues:


Communications-oriented OS design

Current operating systems are well suited for applications that
spend most of their time operating on data stored in main memory, and
that perform occasional, coarse-grained I/O operations on slow
devices. To satisfy modern distributed applications that perform
frequent, fine-grained I/O on fast devices, operating systems must (1)
minimize kernel involvement in common case I/O operations, and (2)
tightly manage system resources to maintain fairness and quality of
service.

Application-specific customization of OS services

Existing operating systems offer applications a fixed set of
services with black box implementations. This approach fails to
address the needs of an increasing range of applications that all
demand performance, but have widely varying service needs and usage
patterns. We investigate customizable operating system services that
allow applications to tailor service implementations so that they meet
precisely their needs in functionality and performance.

Publications

osiris.ps


Experiences with a High-Speed Network Adaptor: A Software
Perspective.
(with Bruce S. Davie and Larry L. Peterson.) In
proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM'94 Symposium, pp. 2-13, London, UK,
September 1994.

thesis-tr.ps


Operating System Support for High-Speed
Networking.
(Ph.D. Dissertation.) Technical Report
94-24. Department of Computer Science, University of Arizona, Tucson,
AZ, August 1994.

fbufs.ps


Fbufs: A High-Bandwidth Cross-Domain Transfer Facility.
(with Larry L. Peterson.) In proceedings of the 14th Symposium
on Operating Systems Principles, pp. 189-202, Asheville, NC,
December 1993.

customization.ps


Efficient Support for Incremental Customization of OS Services.
In proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Object
Orientation in Operating Systems, pp. 108-111, Asheville, NC,
December 1993.

analysis.ps


Network Subsystem Design.
(with Mark B. Abbott,
Michael A. Pagels and Larry L. Peterson.) IEEE Network (Special Issue on
End-System Support for High-Speed Networks), 7(4):8-17, July 1993.

lipto.ps


Beyond Microkernel Design: Decoupling Modularity and Protection
in Lipto.
(with Larry L. Peterson and Norman C. Hutchinson.) In
proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Distributed Computing
Systems, pp. 512-520, Yokohama, Japan, June 1992.


Phone: (713) 527-4664 / Fax: (713) 285-5930 / E-Mail: druschel@cs.rice.edu

