Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:16:03 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.2
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4656
Last-modified: Wed, 16 Oct 1996 20:30:51 GMT

Teofilo F. Gonzalez





Professor

Teofilo F.
Gonzalez

Room 2119, Engineering I
Department of Computer Science
University of California
Santa Barbara, CA 93106-5110

Internet:
teo@cs.ucsb.edu
Telephone:
(805) 893-3849
Facsimile:
(805) 893-8553



Ph.D., University of Minnesota 1975


Research interests:
computer-aided design, VLSI placement and routing algorithms,
scheduling theory, design and analysis of algorithms.



Dr. Gonzalez received the B.Sc. degree in Computer Science from
the Instituto Tecnologico de Monterrey (1972) and the Ph.D.
degree in Computer Science from the University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, (1975).
Professor Gonzalez research activity has concentrated on the development of
efficient exact and approximation algorithms for problems in several disciplines.
In the area of
computer-aided design of integrated circuits and systems
,
he developed efficient algorithms for component placement and
wire routing for VLSI and MPCB systems.  Specifically, he has developed
efficient algorithms for channel, rectangle, and switchbox routing problems, via
assignment, via placement, pin redistribution, and layer assignment for VLSI and MPCB systems.
Dr. Gonzalez has also investigated the complexity of generating exact and
approximate solutions to a set of
computational geometry
problems.  Specifically, he has
developed some very interesting algorithms for partitioning, grouping
and covering problems.  These are robust algorithms that
generalize to any number of dimensions.
These problems have applications in
computer-aided design, cluster analysis, etc.
He has also developed efficient approximation algorithms for
deterministic
scheduling
problems.  These problems have applications
in manufacturing systems as well as in task assignment in
real-time multiprocessor systems.
He has developed efficient algorithms for preemptive and
nonpreemptive scheduling problems in open,
flow and job shops, as
well as in identical, uniform and unrelated processor systems.
Dr. Gonzalez has also developed
exact and approximation algorithms
for graph problems, code minimization,
two-dimensional map compression, generalized dictionaries,
statistical tests, page fault minimization, etc.
Professor Gonzalez is currently working on
Multi-Message Multicasting
algorithms for networks.  The is a fundamental problem that
arises when executing program in parallel computer systems.
Some applications include iterative methods for solving systems
of linear and non-linear equations, and most dynamic programming
procedures, etc.
His work has been published in the
Journal of ACM
,
SIAM Journal on Computing
,
Information Processing Letters
,
Integration: The VLSI Journal
,
as well as in
IEEE Transactions
,
Other General Theory Journals
,
Computational Geometry Journals
,
Operations Research Journals
,
Other Journals and Research Books
, and
Conference Proceedings
.
In addition, his work has been presented in
Conferences
.
Professor Gonzalez is an Editor of
IEEE Transactions on Computers
.
He has received the Outstanding Computer Science
Professor of the Year Award in 1987 and 1994.
Dr. Gonzalez current research interests are
the design of efficient algorithms for multimessage multicasting in
networks,
scheduling in unrelated processor systems,
component placement and wire routing problems with applications in
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) of Integrated Systems and
Circuits; and algorithms for partitioning, grouping and covering problems.


December, 21 1995 (last time updated).
September, 26, 1996 (partial update).
E-mail comments and questions to teo@cs.ucsb.edu.
UCSB CS Technical Report Link
.





