Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:19:30 GMT
Server: Stronghold/1.3.2 Ben-SSL/1.3 Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: Apache=gs3521511848607570696; path=/

The Sanjay Ranka Home Page







Sanjay Ranka
,
Associate Professor, Department of CISE, University of Florida

COT 6930 - Parallel Computing

This page has been visited
times since 10/15/96.

Research Interests
Compilers and Software Environments for Parallel Machines,
Design and Analysis of Parallel Algorithms,
Models of Parallel Computation, High Performance Computing,
Neural Networks.

First Workshop on Solving Irregular Problems
on Distributed Memory Machines

Proceedings


Second Workshop on Solving Irregular Problems
on Distributed Memory Machines

Proceedings


Recent Talks

Scalable Runtime Support for HPF-1 and HPF-2
,
HPFF Meeting, Houston, Jan 30, 1995.

Recent Professional Activities


1993--present, Member,
Editorial Board,  Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing,
(Subject Area Editor:  Algorithms and Scientific Computing)
1993--present, Member, Message Passing Interface (MPI) standard
1993, Workshop Organizer, ARPA Runtime Support  Group, Syracuse
University, May 1993
1993, Member, Program Committee, Symposium on High Performance
Distributed Computing
1993, Workshop Organizer, Runtime Support for Parallel Compilers,
Supercomputing 93
1994, Member, Program Committee, International Conference on
Pattern Recognition, Subconference on Parallel Computing
1994, Member, Program Committee, Scalable High-Performance Computing
Conference
1994, Session Chair, Scalable High-Performance Computing
Conference
1995,
Program Committee,  Frontiers of Massively Parallel Computation
1995, Session Chair,  Frontiers of Massively Parallel Computation
1995, Tutorials Chair, Frontiers of Massively Parallel Computation
1995, Workshop Organizer, International Parallel Processing Symposium, Solving Irregular Problems on Distributed Memory
Machines
1995, Program Committee, International Parallel Processing Symposium
1995, Session Chair, International Parallel Processing Symposium
1995, Program Committee, Irregular 1995
1995, Program Committee, International Conference on Parallel
Processing
1995, Program Committee, International Conference on High Performance
Computing


Recent reports
The following are some of the reports which have been recently submitted
to journals/conferences.

Ibraheem Al-furiah, Srinivas Aluru, Sanjay Goil and
Sanjay Ranka,
Parallel Construction of Multidimensional Binary Search Trees

Ibraheem Al-furiah, Srinivas Aluru, Sanjay Goil and
Sanjay Ranka
Practical Algorithms for Selection
on Coarse-Grained Parallel Computers

J. Lee, S. Ranka, R. Shankar,
Communication-Efficient and Memory-bounded External Redistribution
,
technical report, Computer Science Department, Syracuse University.
M. Kaddoura and S. Ranka,
Runtime Support for Data Parallel Applications for
Adaptive and Non-Uniform Computational Environments
C. T. Chiu, K. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Fault Tolerance of Neural Networks.





SPRINT
: Scalable graph Partitioning, Refinement and INcremental graph partitioning Techniques for computational grids
The goal of this project is to develop fast as well as
parallel graph partitioners and incremental graph partitioners for
solving unstrucutured and adaptive applications on parallel machines
and a cluster of workstations (which represents an adaptive
and non-uniform computational environment).

C. W. Ou and S. Ranka, SPRINT Software Verstion 1.0, under preparation.
C. W. Ou and S. Ranka,
Parallel Incremental Graph Partitioning,
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems
, to appear (a preliminary version appeared in Proceedings
of  Supercomputing 94).
C. W. Ou and S. Ranka.
Parallel Remapping Algorithms for Adaptive Problems,
Frontiers' 95
.
Chao-Wei Ou, S. Ranka, and G. Fox.
Fast and Parallel Mapping Algorithms for
Irregular and Adaptive Problems
,
Journal of Supercomputing
(a preliminary version appeared in

Proceedings of  International Conference on Parallel
and Distributed Systems
,
H. S. Maini, K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Genetic Algorithms for Graph Partitioning and Incremental
Graph Partitioning,
Supercomputing '94
. November 1994.
M. Kaddoura, C. W. Ou, and S. Ranka.
Mapping Unstructured Computational Graphs for Adaptive and
Non-Uniform Computational Environments,
IEEE PDT
, September 1995.
Chao-Wei Ou, Manoj Gunwani, and  Sanjay Ranka,
Architecture-Independent Locality-Improving Transformations of
Computational Graphs
,
Proceedings of ICS'95
.


SCARAB
: Scalable Algorithms for Random Accesses in Bulk
Word         SCARAB (SKAR'uhb)  n.
Definition   --n.  1. A scarabaeid beetle, esp. Scarabaeus sacer,
regarded as sacred by the ancient Egyptians.  2. A representation of a
SCARAB beetle, as a ceramic or stone sculpture, used in ancient
Egypt as a talisman and a symbol of the soul.
We are developing scalable algorithms and software for the basic communication and
data access primitives for
Parallelization of Unstructured, Adaptive and Hierarchical Applications
and  Runtime support for data parallel languages such
as High Performance Fortran.

S. Bae and S. Ranka.
A Comparison of Different Message-Passing Paradigms
for the Parallelization of Two Irregular Applications,
{\it Journal of Supercomputing}, to appear.
( A prelimary version appeared as
Experimental Evaluation of Different Message Paradigms on the CM-5
for Irregular Problems
,
Frontiers '95
)
S. Ranka, J. C. Wang, and M. Kumar.
Personalized Communication Avoiding Node Contention on Distributed
Memory Systems,
International Conference on Parallel Processing
,  August 1993,
vol. 1, pp. 241-244.i (a revised version

,
appeared in
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing
.
S. Ranka,  J. C. Wang, and G. C. Fox.
Static and Runtime Scheduling of All-to-Many
Personalized Communication on Permutation Networks,
Proceedings of 1992 International Conference on Parallel and Distributed
Systems
, pp. 211-218. ( a revised version
Static and Runtime Scheduling of All-to-Many
Personalized Communication on Permutation Networks
,
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems
, Novemeber
1994).
J. C. Wang, T. H. Lin, and S. Ranka.
Distributed Scheduling of Unstructured Communication,
{\it Parallel Processing Letters. (Special Issue on Partitioning and
Scheduling)}, December 1995, to appear (A prelimary version appeared
as
Distributed Scheduling of Unstructured Communication on the CM-5,
Proceedings of HICSS
, 1993).
Ravi V. Shankar  and Sanjay Ranka.
Random Data Accesses on a Coarse-grained Parallel Machine
I. One-to-one Mappings
.
submitted to
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing
.
(an earlier version appears as R. V. Shankar and S. Ranka.
Performing Dynamic Permutations on a Coarse-Grained Parallel Machine,
First International Workshop on Parallel Processing
, Bangalore,
India, December 1994.)
Ravi V. Shankar  and Sanjay Ranka.
Random Data Accesses on a Coarse-grained Parallel Machine
II. One-to-many and Many-to-one Mappings
.
submitted to
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing
(an earlier version appears as R. V. Shankar and S. Ranka.
Performing Dynamic Permutations on a Coarse-Grained Parallel Machine,
Proceedings of Symposium of Parallel and Distributed Processing
)
R. Shankar, K. Alsabti, and S. Ranka.
The Transportation Primitive
,
submitted to
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Systems
.
(an earlier version appears as
Many-to-Many Communication With Bounded Traffic
,
Frontiers '95
).
J. C. Wang and S. Ranka. Scheduling of Unstructured Communication on
the Intel iPSC/860,
Supercomputing '94
.


Fortran 90D/High Performance Fortran: Compiler and Runtime Support



The goal of this project is to develop basic compilation techniques and runtime support
for implementing Fortran 90D/High Performance Fortran on MIMD machines.

Z. Bozkus, A. Choudhary, G. Fox, T. Haupt, and S. Ranka.
Compiling Fortran 90D/HPF for Distributed Memory MIMD Computers,
Journal of Parallel and Distributed computing
,
April 1994, pp. 15-26.
Z. Bozkus, A. N. Choudhary, G. C. Fox, T. Haupt, and S. Ranka.
Compiling Distribution Directives in a Fortran 90D Compiler,
International Symposium of Parallel and Distributed Computing
, 1993.
Z. Bozkus, A. N. Choudhary, G. C. Fox, T. Haupt, and S. Ranka.
Fortran 90D/HPF Compiler for Distributed Memory MIMD Computers:
Design, Implementation and Performance Results,
Supercomputing 93
,  pp. 351-360.
A. N. Choudhary, G. C. Fox, S. Hiranandani, K. Kennedy, C. Koelbel,
S. Ranka, and C-W. Tseng.
Unified Compilation of Fortran 77D and 90D
,
ACM Letters on Programming Languages and Systems
. 2(1-4):95-114,
mARCH-December 1993.
Z. Bozkus, A. N. Choudhary, G. C. Fox, T. Haupt, S. Ranka, R. Thakur, and
J-C. Wang.
Scalable Libraries for High-Performance Fortran,  Invited Paper,
Scalable Libraries Conference
,  October 1993.
A. Choudhary,  G. Fox, S. Hiranandani, K. Kennedy, C. Koelbel,
S. Ranka,  and J. Saltz.
Software Support for Irregular and Loosely Synchronous Problems,
Journal of Computing Systems in Engineering
,  vol. 3, pp. 43-52.
G. C. Fox, S. Ranka,  Michael Scott, Allen D. Malony,
Jim Browne, Marina C. Chen, Alok C. Choudhary, Thomas Cheatham,
Jan Cuny, Rudolf  Eigenmann, Amr Fahmy, Ian Foster,   Dennis Gannon,
Tom Haupt, Mike Karr, Carl Kesselman,
Chuck Koelbel, Wei Li, Monica Lam, Thomas LeBlanc,
Jim Openshaw, David  Padua, Constantine Polychronopoulos,
Joel Saltz, Alan Sussman, Gil Weigand, and Kathy Yelick.
Runtime Support for High-Performance Parallel Languages,
Proceedings of  Supercomputing '93
.


Parallelization of Unstructured, Adaptive and Hierarchical
Applications


We are investigating parallel algorithms,
irregular applications on coarse grained Parallel Machines.
Tha targeted applications are mainly in the area of computer vision, scientific
computing and visualization.


A. Choudhary,  G. Fox, S. Hiranandani, K. Kennedy, C. Koelbel,
S. Ranka,  and J. Saltz.
Software Support for Irregular and Loosely Synchronous Problems,
Journal of Computing Systems in Engineering
,  vol. 3, pp. 43-52.
N. Copty,  S. Ranka, G. C. Fox, and R. Shankar.
Data Parallel Algorithms for the Region Growing Algorithms on the CM-5
,
Journal of  Parallel and Distributed Computing
, April 1994.
D. P. Koester, S. Ranka and G. Fox.
A parallel Gauss-Seidel algorithm
for sparse power system matrices
,
Supercomputing '94
. November
1994.
D. Koester, S. Ranka, and G. C. Fox.
Scalable Solutions for Sparse Matrix Solvers,
Scalable Libraries Conference
,  October 1993.
R. Shankar and S. Ranka.
Parallel Vision Algorithms Using Sparse Array Representations,
Journal of Pattern Recognition
, 1993, vol. 26, No. 10, pp. 1511-1519.
R. V. Shankar and S. Ranka.
Hypercube Algorithms for Operations on Quadtrees,
Journal of Pattern
Recognition
, 1992, vol. 25, No. 7, pp. 741-747.



Techniques for Adaptive and Non-uniform
Computational Environments

Data parallel applications on a cluster of workstations (or machines).


M. Kaddoura and S. Ranka,
Runtime Support for Data Parallel Applications for
Adaptive and Non-Uniform Computational Environments.
M. Kaddoura, S. Ranka and A. Wang.
Array Decompositions for Non-uniform Computational Environments
,
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing
, to appear
(an earlier version of this paper appeared in ICPADS 93).
M. Kaddoura, C. W. Ou, and S. Ranka.
Mapping Unstructured Computational Graphs for Adaptive and
Non-Uniform Computational Environments,
submitted to
IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed
Technology
, July 1994 (revised Feb 1995).


Neural Networks and Genetic Algorithms



K. G. Mehrotra, S. Ranka, and C. K. Mohan.
An Introduction to Neural Networks
, MIT Press, in preparation.
A. Menon, K. Mehrotra, C. Mohan and S. Ranka.
Optimization using Replicator Equations,
1995 International Conference on Genetic Algorithms
,
to appear.
C. T. Chiu, K. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Fault Tolerance of Neural Networks,
submitted to
IEEE Transaction on Neural Networks
.
A. Menon, K. Mehrotra, C. Mohan and S. Ranka.
Characterization of Inverse Sigmoid Functions with applications to
Neural Networks,
Journal of  Neural Networks
, to appear.
R. Anand, K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Efficient Classification for Multiclass Problems Using Modular
Neural Networks,
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks
. Vol. 6.,  pp. 117-124,
January 1995
.
I. Ahmad, A. Ghafoor, K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Applications of Neural Networks to Performance Evaluation of Dynamic
Load Balancing Algorithms,
Concurrency: Practice and Experience
, June 1994.
H. S. Maini,  K.G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Knowledge-based non-uniform crossover,
Journal of Complex Systems.
8 (1994), pp. 257-293.
H. Maini, K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Genetic Algorithms for Soft Decision Decoding of Linear Block Codes,
Journal of Evolutionary Computation
, vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 145-164.
1994.
R. Anand, K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Analyzing Images Containing Multiple Sparse Patterns with Neural
Networks,
Journal of Pattern Recognition
, Nov. 1993, vol. 26, No. 11, pp.
1717-1724
.
K. Chakraborty, C. K. Mohan, K. G.  Mehrotra, and S. Ranka.
Forecasting the Behavior of Multivariate Time Series Analysis Using
Neural Networks,
Neural Networks
, 1992,  vol. 5, pp. 961-970.
K. G. Mehrotra, C. K. Mohan, and S. Ranka.
Bounds on the Number of Samples Needed for Neural Learning,
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks
,
November 1991, vol. 2, No. 6, pp. 548-558.


Past Doctoral Students



Todd Heywood, (1991),  A Practical Hierarchical Model of
Parallel Computation.  Technical Staff, IBM Poughkeepsie.
Anand Rangachari, (1992),  Efficient Neural Algorithms for
Multiclass Problems
(co-advisee with Kishan G. Mehrotra and Chilukuri K. Mohan).
Technical Staff, IBM T. J. Watson Labs.
Yeh Chin Chung, (1992),  Static Mapping and Scheduling Algorithms for
Distributed Memory Multiprocessors. Associate Professor, Department of Computer
Science, Feng Chia University, Taiwan R. O. C.
Jhy Chun Wang, (1993), Load Balancing and Communication Support for Irregular Problems.
Technical Staff, IBM Poughkeepsie.
Harpal Maini, (1994), Incorporating Knowledge in Genetic Optimization
(co-advisee with Kishan G. Mehrotra).
Technical Staff, Deutesche Morgan Bank.
M. C. Yang, (1994), 3-D Object Recognition and Description using parallel Geometric Hashing Algorithms (co-advisee with Minsoo Suk).
David Koester, (1995),
Parallel Block-Diagonal-Bordered Sparse Linear Systems for
Power Systems Applications
(co-advisee with Geoffrey Fox).
Chao-Wei Ou, (1996),  Partitioning and Incremental
Partitioning or Adaptive Irregular Problems, Technical Staff, Northeast Parallel Architecture Center.
Ravi Shankar,
(1996),  Scalable Parallel Algorithms for Random Accesses and Shared Memory Simulation.
Technical Staff, Bellcore.
Maher Kaddoura,
(1996),
Parallel Computing in Nonuniform
and Adaptive Computational Environments.
Technical Staff, Architecture Technology Corporation.

Nov. 14 1996


