Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 19:57:58 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sat, 21 Sep 1996 18:21:21 GMT
Content-length: 14027
Home HTML Document



Randy H. Katz

Research Interests

Faculty Book Club

Courses

Recent Publications

Selected Publications

Selected Talks




Professor Randy H. Katz

Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department


Department Chairman and
The United Microelectronics Corporation Distinguished Professor


Ph.D., University of Californa, Berkeley, 1980.
M.S., University of California, Berkeley, 1978.
A. B., Cornell University, 1976.


randy@cs.Berkeley.edu

Room 231 Cory Hall #1770 (Administrative Office)
University of California, Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-1770
510-642-0253 (phone), 510-642-2845 (fax)
Room 637 Soda Hall #1776 (Research Office)
University of California, Berkeley
Berkeley, CA 94720-1776
510-642-8778 (phone), 510-642-5775 (fax)
Click
here
for a letter from the Chair of the EECS Department at Berkeley.

Quotations and Dreams to Live By

"Responsibility is not yours to toss away. It is a privilege, not a right."--Vice Admiral Richard Bolitho in
Beyond the Reef
by Alexander Kent


"I wish to have no connection with ships that do not sail fast, for I intend to go in harm's way."--John Paul Jones



"He rises fastest who knows not whither he is going."--Oliver Cromwell



"It is confessed by all that from his youth he was of a vehement and impetuous nature, of a quick apprehension, and of a strong and aspiring bent for action and for great affairs."--
Life of Themistocles
by Plutarch


Click here for
Randy's Dreamhouse
(200 KBytes). Absolutely essential features include the helipad, the submarine in the moat, the cool car, and the robot chef. My apologies to Matt Groening and "Life in Hell."

My History Up to Today
I received my Ph.D. at Berkeley under Prof. Eugene Wong, working on database
design and translation within the Ingres Relational Database project. I had the good fortune to have also worked one summer with the System-R Relational Database Group at IBM's San Jose Research Laboratory, so I was located in the center of the relational database design and implementation universe.
After my Ph.D., and some career fits and starts, I landed at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where I shifted my interests into VLSI and CAD, in particular, database support for VLSI CAD environments. I was so successful, that an opportunity presented itself to return to Berkeley in 1983, which I accepted gladly, selling my snow tires. Since that time, my research and teaching interests have focused on the design, engineering, and implementation of advanced high performance computing systems.
Always one to exhibit a short attention span, in 1984 I switched from CAD to processor and memory system design. Between 1985 and 1989, I led the design of the distributed cache and virtual memory organization of the SPUR multiprocessor project. We invented the term "snooping caches" (also known as "snoopy" caches), and implemented one of the first invalidation protocols. The overall SPUR project was led by Dave Patterson, and involved Richard Fateman, Paul Hilfinger, Dave Hodges, and John Ousterhout. Snooping cache schemes are used in many multiprocessor servers on the market today.
In 1986, I had an idea for building high performance storage systems by ganging together a large number of small formfactor disk drives, much like the processors in a multiprocessor. Between 1987 and 1992, I led the design and implementation of the Berkeley RAID (Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks) high performance storage system (we coined the term "RAID"). This work was done in overall collaboration with Dave Patterson and John Ousterhout. Click
here
for a picture of "RAID the First" and
here
for a picture of "RAID the Second," which is
still
functional in 1996.
This
is the innovative "shelves of disks" that gave us such incredible MBytes per square foot for its time (72 3.5" disks in a 19" rack). This multibillion dollar per year industry all started with a simple idea in Berkeley in 1986! Too bad I didn't get any royalities.
Unsatisfied with academic life "as usual," and after the elections of 1992, I decided to take a leave during 1993-1994 at the Computing Systems Technology Office (now "Information Technology Office") of the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
. I started as a program manager and ended as an office deputy director. However, along the way, I was responsible for establishing whitehouse.gov and the president and vice.president Internet mail accounts, I participated on Vice President Gore's
National Performance Review
, and played a lead role in formulating the
Federal HPCC program's
Information
Infrastructure Technology and Applications research program in support
of the Administration's
National Information
Infrastructure
Initiative.
To see a photograph of me with President Clinton and Vice President Gore, click
here
.
To see the letter written to me by Vice President Gore, click
here
for plain text, and
here
for a scan of the letter.
To read about my Washington experiences, see my draft paper
Prof. Katz WENT to Washington
in html. Bill Clinton is an interesting guy, but I am
really
looking forward to voting for Al Gore for President in the Year 2000!
On July 1, 1996, I became the first Computer Scientist to be the Chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.


Research Interests of the Moment


Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing

Growing out of Bob Brodersen's
InfoPad Project
, we have been working to develop wireless networking and applications support technologies that make it possible to support seamless roaming within buildings and over the wide area, while efficiently supporting applications that process real-time streams like video as well as web documents.
Our current interest is to examine the issues of wireless/wireline network integration, internetwork operation, and end-to-end quality of service guarantees in the context of a local-area wireless testbed in Soda Hall and a wide-area testbed located in the San Francisco Bay Area. The overall effort, in collaboration with Eric Brewer, is called the
Daedalus Project
.
The combined in-building, metropolitan-area, and wide-area testbed is called
BARWAN
(Bay Area Research Wireless Access Network). This work is supported by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency under its
GloMo Program
.

Heterogeneous Collaboration Environments

With Steve McCanne, who is joining the faculty this year, we are studying how to extend the technology we have developed for adapting data representations in real-time into a comprehensive open framework for collaboration. Elements of this new effort include room-sized collaboration environments, extensive enhancements to the existing MBone collaboration tools, and integration of wireless access into the collaboration environment. We expect to deploy these technologies in a classroom testbed within Soda Hall. Click
here
to see a version of our DARPA proposal that supports this work.


Faculty Book Club
With several of the CS faculty (and other interested faculty members elsewhere on campus), I have established a reading club to discuss controversial books somewhat related to computing technology and the future of the field. This is the list of books we have read so far:

George Gilder,
Life After Television
, Norton, New York, 1992.
Robert Frank and Philip Cook,
The Winner Take All Society
, Free Press, New York, 1995.
Neal Stephenson,
The Diamond Age
, Bantam, New York, 1995.
John Horgan,
The End of Science: Facing the Limits of Knowledge in the Twilight of the Scientific Age
, Addison Wesley, Reading, MA, 1996.
Next book:
Edward Tenner,
Why Things Bite Back: Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences
, 1996.


Courses


Click
here
for an evolving on-line version of
Contemporary Logic Design
, the textbook for CS150, Digital Logic Design.
CS 252, Fall 1995, Graduate Computer Architecture
,
4 Units, M W F 1:00-2:00.
CS 294-7, Spring 1996, Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing
, 3 Units,
M W F 11:00-12:00.
CS 252, Spring 1996, Graduate Computer Architecture
,
4 Units, M W F 3:00-4:00.



Recent Publications
S. Narayanaswamy, S. Seshan, E. Brewer, R. Brodersen, F. Burghardt, A. Burstein, Y-C Chang, A. Fox, J. Gilbert, R. Han, R. Katz, A. Long, D. Messerschmitt, J. Rabaey, "Application and Network Support for InfoPad,"
IEEE Personal Communications Magazine
, V 3, N 2, (April 1996), pp. 4-17.
H. Balakrishnan, V. Padmanabhan, S. Seshan, R. H. Katz, "A Comparison of Mechanisms for Improving TCP Performance over Wireless Links," ACM SIGCOMM '96, Stanford, CA, (August 1996).
M. Stemm, P. Gautier, D. Harada, R. H. Katz, "Reducing Power Consumption of Network Interfaces in Hand-Held Devices," International Workshop on Mobile Multimedia Communications (MoMUC-3), Princeton, NJ, (October 1996).
V. N. Padmanabhan, H. Balakrishnan, K. Sklower, E. Amir, R. H. Katz, "Networking using Direct Broadcast Satellite," Workshop on Satellite Broadcast Information Systems (WOSBIS), Rye, NY, (November 1996).
G. T. Nguyen, R. H. Katz, B. Noble, M. Satyanarayan, "A Trace-Based Approach for Modeling Wireless Channel Behavior," Proceedings Winter Simulation Conference '96, Coronado, CA, (December 1996).

Selected Publications
Hill, M. D., S. J. Eggers, J. R. Larus, G. S. Taylor, G. Adams, B. K. Bose. G.
A. Gibson, P. M. Hansen, J. Keller, S. I. Kong, C. G. Lee, D. Lee, J. M.
Pendleton, S. A. Ritchie, D. A. Wood, B. G. Zorn, P. N. Hilfinger, D. A.
Hodges, R. H. Katz, J. K. Ousterhout, D. A. Patterson, "Design Decisions in
SPUR: A VLSI Multiprocessor Workstation,"
I.E.E.E. Computer Magazine
, V
19, N 11, (November 1986).
D. A. Patterson, G. A. Gibson, R. H. Katz, "The Case for Redundant Arrays of
Inexpensive Disks (RAID)", Proceedings ACM SIGMOD Conference, Chicago, IL, (May 1988).
R. Katz,
Contemporary Logic Design
, Addison-Wesley/Benjamin-Cummings
Publishing Co., Redwood City, CA, 1993.
P. M. Chen, G. A. Gibson, R. H. Katz, E. K. Lee, D. A. Patterson, "Disk Arrays: High Performance Parallel Disk Organizations," ACM Computing Surveys, (June 1994), pp. 145-185. Also appeared in CMG Transactions, Issue 89/90, Summer/Fall 1995, pp. 21-52.
H. Balakrishnan, S. Seshan, R. H. Katz, "Reliable Transport and Handoff Protocols for Cellular Wireless Networks," ACM Wireless Networks Journal, V 1, N 3, (December 1995), pp. 469-482.
Click here for Randy's
Complete List of Publications
, here for his
Awards and
Honors
and here for his
Graduate Students


Selected Talks

The Case for Wireless Overlay Networks
;
compressed postscript
(2 MBytes).

The Case for Wireless Overlay Networks
. Version given at the Federated Computer Science Research Conferences (FCRC), Philadelphia, May 1996;
compressed postscript
(2.4 MBytes).

Research Funding and How to Get It
;
postscript
(226K),
pdf
(65K).

Current Technology Developments in Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing
, Marconi Centeniary of Radio Seminar, Menlo Park, CA, (November 1995),
html
.

Bay Area Research Wireless Access Network: Towards a Wireless Overlay Internetworking Architecture
,
ARPA GloMo PI Meeting, Menlo Park, CA, Nov. 1995;
pdf
(750K).

Randy H. Katz,
randy@cs.Berkeley.edu
; last updated 2 September 1996


