MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 20:35:55 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 5892
Last-Modified: Tuesday, 01-Oct-96 18:12:07 GMT
LARRY S. DAVIS

Larry S. Davis
Larry S. Davis is a Professor in the

Institute for Advanced Computer
Studies

and the Department of Computer Science.  He is affiliated with
the

Computer Vision Laboratory
of the Center for Automation Research,
for which he served as the head from 1981-1986.

Current Research Projects





High Performance Computing for Land Cover Dynamics.


This NSF
funded Grand Challenge project focuses on the use of high performance
computing for addressing problems in analysis of remotely sensed
images.  New algorithms and data structures for image classification,
mixture modeling and map and image databases are being developed as
part of this program. A presentation describing the structure and
highlights of this program can be found by clicking

here

.


Visual navigation
.
A collaborative research
project with the Universities of Pennsylvania and Rochester and the
National Institute of Standards  and Technology is addressing the
problem of identifying and tracking moving objects (specifically
vehicles) from a moving platform. This project is part of ARPA's
unmanned ground vehicle program (UGV). Research at Maryland focuses
on image stabilization and estimation of egomotion from time varying
images.  Additionally, we have studied the use of radial basis function
neural networks for road navigation.  For some online videos showing the
results of Maryland's Datacube stabilization algorithms check out

Carlos Morimoto's home page

.

Looking at people's faces
.
This research
focuses on the analysis of time varying images of humans to recognize
facial expressions as well as other facial actions (blinking, head
gestures, etc.) A database containing over 100,000 images of more than
70 subjects displaying a variety of expressions has been collected, and
parts of the database are available  on CD ROM.  To view a
movie
illustrating this research, click

video clip (1.9 MB)

.

Looking at people in action.

We are
investigating the problem of recognizing natural human activities (e.g.,
types of calisthetic exercises) based on multi-camera time varying image
analysis.  A small database of nine views of a human performing
two types of activities was acquired at Carnegie Mellon University,
and we are currently attempting to develop algorithms for reconstructing
the sequence of instantaneous configurations of the human based on
integration of analysis from these nine views over time.  More recent
work investigates the problem of finding and tracking people in
both IR and color video, and recognizing their interactions with one
another and with objects in their environments.


Research Infrastructure
for High Performance Computing.


This is an NSF grant that provided
funds for the acquisition of two high performance computers for the UMIACS/CSD
high performance computing laboratory.  The two machines acquired are a 16 node
IBM SP2 (to be configured as a machine for I/O research with over 250GB of
disk and a tertiary storage system) and a 10 node Alpha workstation farm.



RECENT PUBLICATIONS



COURSE MATERIALS




Data structures

.  This page contains
the syllabus for CMSC 420, a senior level course on data structures, project descriptions
and pointers to postcript files that contain the viewgraphs used for the course.

Computer Vision

. This is
a senior level introductory course on computer vision.  This page contains the
course syllabus, presentation materials and project descriptions.


RESEARCH STAFF





Yaser Yacoob


David Harwood


Margrit Betke


Carter Shock


Ismail Haritaoglu


Esin Haritaoglu

Vasanth Philomin


Jinyuan Tao


Dariu Gavrila



Ross Cutler



Voja Lalich-Petrich


Mark Westling



Thanarat Horprasert


