Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 20:02:22 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3044
Last-modified: Mon, 07 Oct 1996 23:46:17 GMT
Frank Vahid's Home Page

Frank Vahid's Home Page

Education and Work


B.S. in Electrical Engineering, University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign, 1988.
M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science, University of California,
Irvine, 1990 and 1994.
R&D engineer, Hewlett Packard, Santa Clara, California.
R&D engineer, AMCC, San Diego, California.


Research Topics


Hardware/software codesign of embedded systems, with emphasis
on functional partitioning.  An embedded system is almost any
computing system other than a desktop computer or server.
Examples include automobile cruise-control and fuel-injection,
aircraft autopilots, telecommunication products, TV set-top
boxes, network switches, VCR's, camcorders, robot controllers,
medical devices, and audio/video encoders and decoders.
Hardware/software codesign is the problem of designing
systems implemented with both standard processors and custom
digital hardware processors.  Tasks include specifying the
system's functionality, partitioning the functionality among
standard and custom processors, interfacing the hardware and
software, and simulating the entire system to verify correctness
before creating expensive implementations.


Recent Results


A model for hardware/software partitioning (SLIF-AG).
Demonstration of the advantages of functional partitioning
over the current structural partitioning approach for
distributing a system among packages (with Yu-Chin Hsu
and Thuy Le).
New system-level transformations (e.g., procedure exlining,
procedure cloning) that ease the task of exploring size/performance
tradeoffs, a task currently accomplished by manually rewriting a
specification.
Communication libraries for embedded processor, PC, and FPGA
data transfer (with Linus Tauro).


Past Results


Definition of the SpecCharts language, a combination
of VHDL and Statecharts, for simple and natural
embedded system specification.
Development of the SpecSyn system-design tool, for
rapid exploration of various hardware/software implementations
and automatic refinement into a more detailed specification.


Contact information


Computer Science, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521
(909) 787-4710, fax: 787-4643, email: vahid@cs.ucr.edu


Publications

Link to UCR CS publications


Other

Link to The Baha'i Faith WWW Page



International Symposium on System Synthesis


Prerequisite structure

Excel test

Return to Faculty
Home Page

