Date: Mon, 25 Nov 1996 23:29:18 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5.1
Last-modified: Wed, 02 Oct 1996 20:43:03 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 7972



Home Page: Greg Priest-Dorman






Campaign for Online Freedom of Speech, Press and Association


Help design an
accessible world!


A point in every direction is the
same as no point at all
, (
The Point
by Harry
Nilsson)

These pages are HTML compliant:
use any browser
you choose!
(Of course NetScape does have some problems
displaying HTML... )



Where Am I in the world?
(
The Seven Beggars
Nahman of Bratslav)
Since there are lots of
ways to get to know people (including checking out their Home
Pages), I hope you enjoy the glimpse of me you get from what's
here.  Below you will find:


The littlest home page

Resources for fighting Internet Censorship

Info on Archery on V.C. Campus


Info for the modern medievalist


My Favorite Books and Stories


Current Computer Projects


Info for the World Citizen

A few diversions
, my favorite
links to news and the world with a bit of silliness tossed in for good measure.


Of course you could
go back
while you still can!



Archery at Vassar

The Archery Mini-Course
Split The Wand!
is back.
If you need information about it send me mail.  If you want to
shoot on campus and are not on my e-mail info list, please
send me a note and I will add you to it.  You will then be
informed of where and when we are shooting and be kept abreast
of any last minute changes.

There are also local (off campus) archery practices.  For
information on these, send me a note and I will put you in
touch with the person running them.

We have been shooting on campus again since 1991.  I would
be interested in any stories or information on Archery at
Vassar back when it was a team sport.




Current Computer Projects and
Links

MULTEXT and MULTEXT-EAST scripts, projects and links


MULTEXT

French Site of the Multext project.

Tomaz
Erjavec's public MULTEXT-EAST site

Multilingual Texts
and Corpora for Eastern and Central European Languages
Site.

MULTEXT-EAST
at univ-aix

Multilingual Texts
and Corpora for Eastern and Central European Languages
Site.

Corpus Encoding
Standard.


March 1996.  From the abstract "The CES has
been designed to be optimally suited for use in language engineering
research and applications, in order to serve as a widely accepted set
of encoding standards for European corpus work...The CES specifies a
minimal encoding level that corpora must achieve to be considered
standardized in terms of descriptive representation (marking of
structural and typographic information) as well as general
architecture (so as to be maximally suited for use in a text
database).  It also provides encoding specifications for linguistic
annotation, together with a data architecture for linguistic corpora."

CES DTDs

The
latest versions of the CES DTDs.  From this location you can see the
DTDs themselves.

CES DTDs via dtd2html

From here you can explore a navigable view (using dtd2html) of
each dtd.

tagusage

This short shell script writen by Heiki-Jaan Kaalep and
then modified by me will do the tag usage
calculations for you and and format it in so you can just paste it into
your TEI or CES header (or any other DTD that wants tagusage).  It
is dependent on the unix carriage return so it will probably need
to be modified to work under dos.
See the script

Using Cyrillic Entities with Emacs psgml mode

I have a system that lets you type the keys you would normally
type to generate a character but when you are in psgml mode it
generates the entitiy for this character, so you can type normaly and
be inserting entities.  It would work equally well for other character
sets (ISOlat1 or 2), I just had a need for cyrillic so that is the one I set up.

If you want to find out more you can read the
HowTo file.
I am looking some for people to
try this out and give me feedback before I put it up for public
consumption.  So if after looking at the HowTo you want the package,
please send me email and we'll work out a way to get it to you
(uuencoded mail probably).


Other SGML projects and links


Robin Cover's SGML web page.

David
Birnbaum's SGML page.

The TEI Guidelines

SGML Open,
a non-profit, international consortium of suppliers whose products and services
support SGML.  Specifically, you might want to check out
Charles
Goldfarb's article,
Entity Management in SGML.



Other projects and links


Text to Speech at speeds above 350wpm

I have
several scripts and emacs macros for working with a dectalk
(multivoice) text to speech unit, nothing to fancy but if you
are interestd in them, drop me a note.  If you have some of your own, I
would be interested in what you have come up with.

Additionally, we are now mirroring T. V. Raman's wonderfull
emacspeak
speach output
subsytem for emacs and hosting the mailing list.  Information on
emacspeak and the mailing list is available at
http://www.cs.vassar.edu/mirror/emacspeak/emacspeak.html
.




International Organization
for Standardization (ISO Online)






Well, that's all there is for now, hope you had a nice visit!

This page was writen using emacs 19.19 and psgml mode with an
htmlplus dtd, then converted to HTML2, most recently to HTML3.2.  If you have any questions or
comments about it, please send them to:

priestdo@cs.vassar.edu

No Soliciting!

This page last was
mucked with on 10/1/96

Back to CS
faculty list
|
CS Search




