Date: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 21:02:09 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.3
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Tuesday, 30-Apr-96 14:11:39 GMT
Content-length: 6959


James F. Allen's Home Page






James F. Allen, URCS Faculty Member

b. 1950. Ph.D. (1979) University of Toronto. Assistant Professor
(79-84), Associate Professor (84-87), Department Chair (87-90),
Professor (87-present), Dessauer Chair (92-present); University of
Rochester. Editor-in-Chief, Computational Linguistics (83-93;
Presidential Young Investigator (84-89); author of
Natural Language
Understanding, Benjamin Cummings (87), 2nd edition
(1995); Reasoning About Plans, Morgan
Kaufmann (91); co-editor of Readings in Planning, Morgan Kaufmann (90);
Fellow of the AAAI.
James Allen's research interests span a range of issues covering
natural language understanding, discourse, knowledge representation,
common-sense reasoning and planning. These areas of research are
combined in
the TRAINS project
, a long term effort co-directed with
Len Schubert. The TRAINS system is an intelligent planning assistant
that can converse in spoken natural language with a person to create,
discuss and evaluate various plans involving freight shipments by
train. In particular, Allen's research breaks down into two main
subareas, broadly classified as research in discourse and research in
plan reasoning.
The research in discourse is focused on two-person extended dialogs
in which the speakers have specific tasks to accomplish. An emphasis
in this work is the representation and use of the context of the
dialog to solve problems in semantic interpretations and the
recognition of the intentions underlying the speakers' utterances.
Work in this area has included developing the first computational
model of speech acts, the development of a multi-level plan-based
analysis involving discourse-level plans as well as domain-level
plans, and the development of several different discourse-plan
recognition algorithms. In addition, we are exploring how prosody and
intonation signals discourse intentions and how this interacts with
the plan-based dialog model. While it is important for work to be
formally well-defined and understood, it is equally important that
computational theories can lead to effective implementations. As a
result, a considerable amount of effort has also been made in
developing an expressive hybrid knowledge representation system that
can support complex reasoning about plans and actions.
The research in plan reasoning draws much of its motivation from the
dialog work. In particular, the representation of plans must support a
wide range of different forms of reasoning: plan construction (i.e.
traditional planning), plan recognition, plan evaluation, and the
communication of plans between agents. Much of our work in this area
has focused on the representation of time and action, and we have
reformulated the planning problem as a problem in temporal reasoning.
Within this framework, we have developed a representation of plans
that is temporally explicit and supports plan construction,
recognition and communication. We are also exploring methods of
temporal reasoning that are viable even with large data sets of
temporal information.

Key Publications on Temporal Reasoning


Allen, J.F. ``Maintaining Knowledge about Temporal Intervals.''
Communications of the ACM 26, 11, 832-843, November 1983.
Allen, J.F. ``A General Model of Action and Time.'' Artificial
Intelligence 23, 2, July 1984.
Allen, J.F. and P.J. Hayes. ``Moments and Points in an
Interval-Based Temporal Logic.'' Computational Intelligence,
January 1990.
Allen, J.F. "Time and time again:  The many ways to represent time," Int'l. Jr. of Intelligent Systems 6, 4, 341-356, July 1991.
Allen, J.F. and Ferguson, G. "Actions and Events in Interval Temporal Logic", J. Logic and Computation 4, 5, 1994.

Key Publications in Planning and Plan Recognition


Kautz, H. and Allen, J.F. "Generalized Plan Recognition" In Proc., Proc., AAAI Nat'l. Conf. on Artificial Intelligence, Philadelphia, PA, 1986
Allen, J.F. ``Planning as Temporal Reasoning.'' In Proc., 2nd
Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, Morgan
Kaufmann, 1991.
Allen, J.F. et al. Reasoning About Plans, Morgan Kaufmann, 1991.
Ferguson, G. and Allen, J.F. "Arguing about Plans: Plan Representation and Reasoning for Mixed-Initiative Planning", Proc. 2nd Int'l Conf. on Artificial Intelligence Planning Systems (AIPS-94), AAAI Press, 1994.

Key Publications in Natural Language and Dialogue


Allen, J.F. Natural Language Understanding, Benjamin Cummings, 1987, Second Edition, 1994.
Allen, J.F. ``Natural Language, Knowledge Representation and
Logical Form.'' In M. Bates, R. Weischedel (eds.), Challenges in
Natural Language Processing, Cambridge University Press, 1993.
Allen, J.F. and D.J. Litman. ``A Plan Recognition Model for
Subdialogues in Conversations.'' Cognitive Science 11, 2,
163-200, 1987.
Allen, J.F. and D.J. Litman. ``Discourse Processing and Common sense Plans.'' in P.R. Cohen, J. Morgan, and M. Pollack, Intentions and Communication, MIT Press, 1990.
Hinkelman, E. and J.F. Allen. ``Two Constraints on Speech Act
Ambiguity.'' In Proc., 27th Meeting of the Assoc. for
Computational Linguistics, 1989.
A study on prosody and discourse structure in cooperative dialogs (with S. Nakajima), Phonetica, 1993.
Heeman, P. and Allen, J.F. "Detecting and correcting speech repairs",  Proc.  32nd Meeting of the Assoc. for Computational Linguistics, 1994.
Traum, D. and Allen, J.F. "Discourse Obligations in Dialogue Processing"  Proc.  32nd Meeting of the Assoc. for Computational Linguistics, 1994.
Allen, J.F. et al, The TRAINS Project: A Case Study in Defining a Conversational Planning Agent, Journal of Experimental and Theoretical AI, 1995.
Spoken Dialogue and interactive planning (with G. Ferguson, B. Miller and E. Ringger), Proc. ARPA Spoken Language Systems Technology Workshop, 1995.

Software Available
The parser from the TRAINS-95 system is a bottom-up chart parser that closely follows the development of the parser in Natural Language Understanding, Second Edition.  The
Users Manual
is available by FTP. The system is written in Common Lisp and supports a range of features that help manage large-scale grammars.


Back to URCS Faculty directory


Back to URCS Home Page



