Date: Mon, 02 Dec 1996 16:03:14 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html

CSE 457 Help








1996 Autumn Quarter





Help


Basic help
Why does the page look so weird?
Mosaic, Netscape, Lynx -- what's the difference?

More info on Mosaic
More info on Netscape
More info on Lynx

Using Netscape on the Indys



Basic help
Point.  Click.  Repeat until sufficiently bored.
You'll find more
in-depth help on the
Help
menu of your browser
.

Why does the page look so weird?
The CSE/457 home page uses tables, a feature that is best supported by
Netscape.  Mosaic tends to completely leave out any table entries containing
links, and occasionally even seg-faults.  If you are unable to use tables,
there is a version of the home page done in traditional HTML style:

http://www.cs.washington.edu/education/courses/457/notables.html



Mosaic, Netscape, Lynx -- what's the difference?

Mosaic
was the original graphical web browser, created by Marc Andreesen
and others at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaigne.  After graduating,
though, most of the team that created Mosaic created the company that is
now
Netscape Communications
.
So what's the difference between the two?  Well, Mosaic is still being
(slowly) worked on at UIUC.  Netscape, on the other hand, has been screaming
ahead in technology.  Universities tend to support Mosaic, because it is
free, and the source is distributed, so it can compile on obscure and
obsolete operating systems (eg Ultrix).  Netscape gives their products away
to educational institutions for free, but usually users have to install
and support it themselves.

Netscape
is considered "faster" because it displays a page as it loads.
With Mosaic, you have to wait until the entire page is loaded.  Netscape
also supports a larger set of formatting tags, and its next version will
include enhanced email and newsgroup reading, as well as extensions to
support advanced technologies such as Macromedia Director, Adobe Acrobat,
Sun's Java, and more.
Netscape also works better with color.  It uses 24-bit color if available,
whereas Mosaic is limited to 8-bit color.  This is one of the main reasons
we suggest you use Netscape for CSE/457
.
What about
Lynx
?  Lynx is a text-based web browser.  It isn't very exciting,
but it can be useful if you can't support graphics -- like if you are
dialing in from home and not using a SLIP/PPP connection.
More information on all three can be found on these pages:

Department info on Mosaic

NCSA Mosaic

Netscape Communications

About Lynx



Using Netscape on the Indys
Though Netscape isn't officially supported in the IndyLab, we have a copy
for you to use.  This can be found at
/cse/courses/cse457/bin/netscape
.  You might want to make an
alias, or include
/cse/courses/cse457/bin/
in your path list.
You'll need to set up one thing in Netscape so that you can use helper
applications (eg sound-players, movie-players, installer-scripts, etc.).
Under the
Options
menu select
Preferences
.  Change the
options-menu to
Helper Applications
.  Then simply change the word
netscape
(after Global Types File and Global Mailcap File)
to
mosaic
.
More help
If you need any additional help, try the help menu on your browser.  Or,
ask one of the
TAs
for help.


