Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 15:08:33 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 22 Nov 1996 02:19:32 GMT
Content-length: 19313


The Impact of a Research University





The Impact of a Research University:
An Information Technology
Perspective

Ed
Lazowska


Department of
Computer Science & Engineering


University of Washington


The University of Washington is one of the nation's premier
research universities
.  For more than twenty years, UW has
ranked among the top five institutions in annual Federal
research obligations.  (Currently UW is second to Johns
Hopkins, with MIT and Stanford in third and fourth
positions.  Currently UW ranks fifth in industrial research
support.)  The UW faculty includes ninety members of the
National Academies, seven MacArthur Foundation award winners,
and four Nobel prize winners in the past decade.  Fifty seven
junior faculty have won NSF/Presidential Young Investigator
Awards.  A number of programs are ranked among the top dozen
in the nation in their fields, including Atmospheric Sciences,
Bioengineering, Biostatistics, Cell & Developmental Biology,
Computer Science & Engineering, Dentistry, Geography,
Neurosciences, Nursing, Oceanography, Pharmacology, Physiology,
Psychology, Public Health & Community Medicine, Sociology,
Statistics, and Zoology.

What does this mean to the State of Washington and its
citizens
-- students, parents, and taxpayers?
In some cases the answer is well known:  UW's
preeminence in the medical sciences, for example,
has given us Medic One, kidney dialysis, some of
the finest health care in the nation, and flourishing
bioengineering and biotechnology industries featuring
companies such as Immunex, Ostex, PhysioControl, and
Zymogenetics.
This document tells the story from the perspective
of another field:  information technology, focusing
on the Department of Computer Science & Engineering
and touching on related programs in the
mathematical sciences and in engineering.



A Half Century of Exponential Progress in Information
Technology:  Who, What, When, Where, Why, and How?


There has been mind-boggling progress in information technology
,
which pervades most aspects of our lives and most aspects of
our economy.
The nation that leads in information technology enjoys enormous
competitive advantages.
America owns this leadership today, thanks to a complex interplay
between government, academia, and industry.

Industry can afford to look ahead only a few years
.
The high risk of fundamental research, workforce mobility,
difficulty in capitalizing on internal innovations, and
shareholder behavior are among the reasons.

As a nation, though, we
can
and
must
invest
for the long term
.  America's future depends upon our
broad-based leadership in certain key sectors, not on the
individual success or failure of specific companies.

By-and-large, this work takes place in universities
,
with government support.
The historical track record is clear:  over
the course of many decades, federally-supported university
research has played a critical role in essentially
every aspect of information technology:  timesharing,
computer networking, workstations, computer graphics,
database technology, Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI)
circuit design, Reduced Instruction Set Computer (RISC)
architectures, I/O subsystems based
upon Redundant Arrays of Inexpensive Disks
(RAID), parallel computing, and others.

Universities transfer technology in two ways
.  They
transfer ideas, by licensing and by placing concepts
in the public domain.
And they transfer people:  students and faculty leave
to join or form companies.
Close industry/university interactions facilitate this
technology transfer, as well as facilitating the exchange
of insights about long-term strategic directions.
It's this pattern of innovation and technology transfer -- the
fluid interaction between academia and
industry -- that has made America the world leader in information
technology, and that will help us maintain this critical lead.

The unique genius of America's university system is that it
combines research and education -- ideas and people
.
And it's not just graduate education.
The single most important factor in shaping my own
career was my "adoption" as an undergraduate at Brown
University by Professor Andries van Dam.
I took his course; I became his teaching assistant;
I became his research assistant; I became his protege
and friend.
And I am not alone.
Three other faculty members in my department were
Andy's undergraduate students.
The computer science department chairs at MIT,
Maryland, Princeton, and Waterloo, in addition to UW,
were Andy's undergraduate students.
The person who wrote much of the early software for
the Macintosh at Apple, and the person who oversaw the
x86 architecture family at Intel, and the person who ran
the Windows 95 project at Microsoft and now heads
Internet activities there, were Andy's undergraduate
students.

That's the kind of program we run at the
University of Washington
:  forefront research,
and seamless integration of research with education -- a
very special kind of education that takes bright students
and brings them to the very forefront.

It's critical not to take a one-dimensional view
.
Don't try to measure "impact" by a single measure, be it
companies created, or technologies licensed, or dollars
raised, or programs out-ranked, or students graduated.
And don't try to view Washington's higher education system
monolithically, for it
is
a system, with different
institutions serving different purposes for different
students and different employers.
You can't get your arms around this with a spreadsheet.

For further information
, see the Computing Research
Association's web-based monograph
"Computing
Research:  Driving Information Technology and the Information Industry
Forward"
(http://cra.org/research.impact/), and
Ed Lazowska's 1996 University of Washington Annual Faculty Lecture,
"A
Half Century of Exponential
Progress in Information Technology:  Who, What, When, Where,
Why, and How"
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/faculty.lecture/),
plus their associated links.



The University of Washington's Role


The University of Washington is a very special
institution
.  There is nothing else like it in
an entire quadrant of the nation -- north of
California and west of Illinois.

UW's research is a major industry
:  it brings in far
more money each year than the state budget of the
institution -- $482 million during fiscal 1996, compared
to a state appropriation of less than $300 million.

Strong programs attract top-flight people to the
Northwest
, both as students and as faculty.

These programs provide a first-rate education to
Washington residents
.
The University of Washington Department of Computer Science
& Engineering is ranked among the top ten programs in
the nation, both for the quality of its graduate/research
programs and for the quality of its undergraduate programs.
UW CSE faculty member
David
Salesin
teaches
computer
graphics
to undergraduates in a
state-of-the-art
instructional laboratory
equipped with $350,000 of
equipment donated by Silicon Graphics, Inc., in
response to Salesin's research contributions and
curricular innovations.
Undergraduates who excel in this course become
Salesin's teaching assistants and research
assistants -- of Salesin's 9 most recent research
publications (as of Spring 1996), 5 were co-authored
with undergraduates.
Salesin has just finished teaching a course in
computer
animation
to multi-disciplinary teams of undergraduates
drawn from Art, Music, and Computer Science & Engineering
in a
second
state-of-the-art instructional laboratory
equipped with $450,000 of equipment donated by
Silicon Graphics, Inc., in response to a proposal
from Salesin, Art Professor Shawn Brixey, and
Music Professor Richard Karpen.
Professional animators Ronen Barzel from Pixar and
Annabella Serra from Rainsound co-taught the
course, augmented by 7 guest lecturers from the
animation industry.
This is the kind of education that the University of
Washington strives to provide.

At the University of Washington, research and education
are inextricably linked
:
research
relationships
equip instructional laboratories
; research infuses the
curriculum; research creates (and funds) opportunities for
independent study at the cutting edge; research builds
ties to leadership companies that provide co-op and
internship (and ultimately permanent employment)
opportunities.

UW's graduates form the next generation of Washington's
leaders
in business, engineering, science, and government.

These graduates staff high-technology industry
.
The University of Washington is the largest supplier of new
college graduates in the nation to Microsoft.
The University of Washington also is the largest supplier of
new college graduates in the nation to Intel -- Intel has
38 "Strategic Universities," and UW is #1.
The UW Department of Computer Science & Engineering is
essentially the only supplier to a number of major regional
firms such as DECwest Engineering, Geoworks/Seattle, and
Tera Computer.
Every year, UW CSE sends more than 100 outstanding Computer
Science and Computer Engineering majors into the Puget
Sound area workforce.

Programs such as CSE import new technology to the
Northwest
.  UW CSE brought the Internet to the
Northwest 15 years ago, when a DECsystem-20 in our
department became the first computer in a several state
region to be attached to what was then ARPANET.
(Today, University of Washington Computing & Communications
operates the attachment point for NorthWestNet, the principal
Internet service provider in the Pacific Northwest.)
At about the same time,
the
original Very Large
Scale Integrated (VLSI) circuit designers in
the Northwest were trained in UW CSE
, in a program
co-sponsored by UW CSE, Boeing, and Caltech.
Graduates of that first course built the first
microprocessor VAX, the MicroVAX-I, at DECwest
Engineering.

These programs create new technology
.
In the 1970s, the Pascal compiler for Digital
Equipment Corporation's then-new VAX computer was
built by UW CSE; the existence of this compiler
is given significant credit for the VAX's rapid
penetration of the academic market.
WebCrawler
,
one of the first search engines for the
World Wide Web,
was designed, implemented, and deployed
by UW CSE graduate student Brian Pinkerton
; WebCrawler
was sold to America Online.
Sundodger
Scout, a football scouting program offering breakthroughs in
flexibility and visualization
, was conceived and implemented
in 1995 by two CSE graduate students working with the
University of Washington football department; Sundodger Scout
is credited by the Husky coaches with contributing considerably
to the team's remarkable success (Pac-10 co-champion)
coming off two years of probation.
Collaborative research in computer graphics between the University
of Washington and Microsoft has led to new products and to new
technologies incorporated in existing products --
at the 1996
SIGGRAPH conference
, 15 papers (1/3 of the total presented at
this premier international conference) were from UW and/or
Microsoft:  5 from UW, 7 from Microsoft, and 3 joint.
UW CSE computer systems technology for x86 application
performance tuning is currently being licensed to a number
of major computer system vendors by UW's Office of Technology
Transfer.
OTT recently sold to Digital Equipment
Corporation patented UW CSE computer systems technology
for the design of high-performance
processors incorporating simultaneous multithreading.
The
BRUTE
AI-based datamining technology
has been licensed
to a number of companies by OTT.

These programs attract new industry
.  DECwest Engineering,
Geoworks/Seattle
,
and
Tera
Computer Company
are among the
companies that were attracted to the region in part because
of the strength of UW CSE.
(Most of the mobile software for the new
Nokia 9000
digital cellular phone with integrated Internet access
-- FAX,
web browser and telnet -- was done by UW CSE undergraduates at
Geoworks.)
HP Instrument Division and
ESCA
are among the companies
that were attracted to the region in part because of the
strength of UW EE.

These programs create new companies through their graduates
.
Semiconductor design house
IC Designs
was founded by John Torode,
a UW CSE alumnus, based in part upon UW CSE technology
; IC
Designs was recently sold to industry leader Cypress Semiconductor.
Aldus was
co-founded by Jeremy Jaech, a UW CSE alumnus
,
who went on to found
Visio Corporation
.
Pixar Animation Studios
was co-founded by UW CSE alumnus
Loren
Carpenter
.
CP/M (Control Program / Microcomputer), the loser to
Microsoft's MS-DOS as the
operating system for IBM's new personal computer, was designed
and implemented by
UW
CSE alumnus Gary Kildall
and
his
company, Digital Research, Inc
.
UW CSE alumnus Ken Burkhardt founded
Dialogic
, a leader
in computer telephony.
TicketCAM
is an
example of a cute little idea turned into a product by
one of our undergraduates (Kirk Radeck).

These programs create new companies through their discoveries
.
Statistical
Sciences, Inc.
, a
leading supplier of statistical visualization software,
was founded by Doug Martin,
a UW Statistics faculty member, based in part upon UW Statistics
technology
.
Neopath was
founded by Alan Nelson, a UW EE faculty
member, based in part upon UW EE technology.
The
Metacrawler
is one of four UW "intelligent Internet
agent" technologies that were recently licensed to
NETbot, Inc.
,
a UW-derived startup.
The new
field of "shape photography" was pioneered
by faculty from UW CSE, Mathematics, and Statistics
,
and the company Manifold Graphics was recently founded
to commercialize this technology.
In 1996, two additional companies were founded to commercialize
UW CSE computer graphics technologies:
Inklination
(focused on
computer-generated
pen-and-ink illustration
), and
Numinous Technologies, Inc.
(initially focused on
two technologies --
duotone

printing
and
wavelet-based
image database querying
-- but expecting
to license additional UW computer graphics innovations).

These programs help create a "technology-rich" region, to the
benefit of all.
UW CSE's annual
Affiliates
Meeting
is a forum for interaction among
more
than 50 leadership companies
from the region and the nation.
Our
UWTV-televised
colloquium series
and
professional
Masters program
play significant roles in keeping the region's leading-edge
workforce current.



Related Material

April
1996 University of Washington Information Technology Campus Tour
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/info.tech/)

Overview
of the University of Washington Department of Computer
Science & Engineering
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/general/overview.html/)

Computing
Research:  Driving Information Technology and the Information Industry
Forward
(http://cra.org/research.impact/)

"A
Half Century of Exponential
Progress in Information Technology:  Who, What, When, Where,
Why, and How"
(1996 University of Washington Annual
Faculty Lecture)
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/faculty.lecture/)

Testimony
to the House Appropriations Committee concerning NSF, April 1995
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/cra/oral.html)

Testimony
to the House Science Committee concerning HPCC, October 1995
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/cra/oral.10.95.html)

Vice
President Gore's speech at the ENIAC 50th
anniversary celebration, February 1996
(http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/faculty.lecture/innovation/gore.html)

This document:  http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/lazowska/impact/



lazowska@cs.washington.edu



