Date: Mon, 02 Dec 1996 16:09:56 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html

Sample write-up








1996 Autumn Quarter





Below is a sample project write-up, written for a wavelet-based
image compression program (a project in a previous offering of 457).
Your write-up should use a similar outline:


Abstract

An introduction to the project: what it does,
why it's useful, etc.
Implementation

How your group implemented the project.  You should discuss the
basics of the algorithms and how they were implemented.
Personal implementation

Discuss what you contributed to
the project, including the required parts and any bells and
whistles that you worked on.
Results

How well does your program work?  Does it produce interesting results?
What might you change or add, given more time?






Project 1 :
Wavelet



Brad West
Group 6
10 Oct 95




Abstract
Wavelets, originally developed as a mathematical concept and a method
for signal processing, are quickly becoming a standard tool in
computer graphics.  The wavelet transform has many advantages: it
allows the storage of information at multiple resolutions, is easy to
implement, and is very fast to compute.
In this project we investigated the use of wavelets for image
compression.  Wavelets are a natural tool for compression because they
isolate the parts of the image that contain a lot of detail.  With
wavelets, it is possible in many cases to display a recognizable image
using only five percent of the original data.  In addition, the
coefficients of a wavelet-transformed image can be ordered from most
to least significant, allowing for progressive transmission in
bandwidth-limited applications, such as when sending an image over the
Web.
Implementation
Our group implemented a wavelet compression program on an Indy R4400,
using the
libui
user interface library.  The program
allows a user to load an
.rgb
image, and then compress
that image (with a selectable degree of compression) using the wavelet
transform.
We chose to use the
Haar
wavelet basis because it is very
easy to implement and fast to compute.  To represent a signal in the
Haar basis, the basic algorithm is to take two neighboring samples and
average them.  Then, in place of the two original samples, you instead
store their average and difference.  A two-dimensional image can be
treated in the same way as a one-dimensional signal by concatenating
the scan lines end to end.  Performing this procedure recursively on
the computed averages transforms an image down to a single overall
average and an array of differences.  Though no information is saved
in the transform itself, throwing out the smallest differences
provides a compressed representation.
A compressed image, then, is basically an overall average, a few
important details, and a lot of zeroed-out coefficients.  When saving
the transformed image to a file, we perform
run-length encoding
to get a concise representation.
Personal implementation
Though our group worked together on the basic wavelet-transform
algorithm, my personal responsibility was saving this transformed
image to a file (and, consequently, being able to read that file back
in).  This turned out to be a rather substantial task.  First, it
turns out that although the basic wavelet transform theoretically
results in no change in the amount of data, there is initially a
substantial
increase
in the amount of memory used.  This is
because an image is stored as an array of three-
byte
(8-bit)
pixels, but a wavelet-transform results in an array of
three-
float
(32-bit) values.  Already we have increased the
amount of memory required by a factor of four!
To actually reduce the total amount of storage, we first quantized
the floats into 15-bit values.  Though this is still almost twice the
original amount of storage required, with this change the subsequent
compression step, in which small coefficients are zeroed out, then
yields a net reduction in storage.
When writing the wavelet coefficients to disk, each value is
proceeded by a flag bit that encodes whether the value is a wavelet
coefficient (1) or a series of zeros (0).  When the value represents a
series of zeros, the remaining 15-bits encode how many zeros in the
series.
Results
The biggest problem in achieving a high compression rate is in
encoding the compressed image on disk.  For example, compressing
mona.rgb
with a 3% loss of quality allowed us to discard
about 95% of the coefficients.  The resulting file, however, was still
about 33% the size of the original.  Though we have achieved a fairly
high compression, it would seem that we should still be able to do
much better.
For future work, it would be interesting to investigate other
methods of tranforming the original two-dimensional data into a
one-dimensional signal.  For example, instead of simply reading the
data from left to right and top to bottom, we might try reading it in
a "serpentine" order that goes first from left to right and then from
right to left as it goes down the screen, or in a space-filling-curve
order that winds through the image.  Such methods might produce larger
strings of zeros, resulting in more compression.  We also wanted to
try using different amounts of compression on each color channel, for
example, compressing more of the blue channel (which our eyes are less
sensitive to) than the red.

