Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 03:29:08 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html


ZPL Papers and Manuals




ZPL Papers and Manuals


ZPL-specific Papers and manuals

Language Description Papers



ZPL: An Array Sublanguage
(August, 1993)
Introduction to the ZPL language.  Very old and somewhat out of date.

A ZPL Programming Guide
(July, 1996)
An intuitive introduction to the language that walks through several
scientific programming examples.

ZPL Language Reference Manual (DRAFT)
(June, 1996)
The most complete description of the language (includes an index).


Implementation Papers



Factor-Join: A Unique Approach to Compiling Array Languages for Parallel Machines
(May 1996)
A framework for compiling array languages.

The Implementation of a Machine-Independent Array Language
(November, 1995)
Implementation of ZPL.


Benchmark Performance Evaluation Papers




ZPL vs. HPF: A Comparison of Performance and Programming Style
(May, 1995)
Compares ZPL and HPF using a set of NAS, NASA and GENESIS benchmark
programs.

SIMPLE Performance Results in ZPL
(August, 1994)
Performance comparisons against hand-coded programs.


Real-world Applications of ZPL




A Portable Parallel N-Body Solver
(1995)
Describes how ZPL is used to solve n-body solver.

The Portable Parallel Implementation of Two Novel Mathematical Biology
Algorithms in ZPL
(July, 1995)
Describes how ZPL is used to solve two mathematical biology problems.



Foundations of ZPL

Machine Model Papers




Type Architecture, Shared Memory and the Corollary of Modest Potential
(1986)
Discusses the need for accurate abstract machine models when
developing efficient algorithms.  Introduces the CTA abstract machine
model.



Programming models -- shared- vs. nonshared-memory models



A Comparison of Programming Models for Shared Memory Multiprocessors
(1990)
Empirical comparison of how the shared memory and non-shared memory
programming models effect the performance of programs on shared memory
multiprocessors.

A Comparison of Shared and Nonshared Memory Models of Parallel Computation
(1991)
Theoretical comparison of the shared memory and non-shared memory
programming models and their influence on parallel algorithm performance.

On the Influence of Programming Models on Shared Memory Computer Performance
(1992)
Experimental comparsion of shared memory and non-shared memory programming
models for three machines and two applications (LU decomposition and WATER).



Programming models -- Abstractions and A-ZPL (formerly Orca C)



Scalable Abstractions for Parallel Programming
(1990)
Introduces the notion of
ensembles
that provides scalability.

A Flexible Communication Abstraction for Nonshared Memory Parallel Computing
(November, 1990)
Introduces the notion of
port ensembles
that separates the
specification of communication from computation.

Abstractions for Portable, Scalable Parallel Programming
(December, 1993)
Extensive discussion of the Phase Abstractions programming model.

Foundations of Practical Parallel Programming Languages
(1993)
Describes the relation between ZPL and Orca C, and describes the underlying
models for these languages.

A Portable Implementation of SIMPLE
(1991)
Detailed description of how the SIMPLE CFD benchmark is written in Orca C.


Optimized Interprocessor Communication




Quantifying the Effects of Communication Optimizations
(May 1996)
An evaluation of communication optimizations.

IRONMAN: An Architecture Independent Communication Interface for Parallel Computers
(March 1996)
A machine-independent interface for custom interprocessor communication.


Miscellany




Accommodating Polymorphic Data Decompositions in Explicitly Parallel
Programs
(April, 1994)
Why message passing libraries alone are not sufficient for portability.







[
ZPL
|
UW CSE
|
UW
]

zpl-info@cs.washington.edu




