Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 03:34:36 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html

Software Engineering at the University of Washington



Software Engineering at the University of Washington

Welcome to the home page for
Software Engineering
research
and education in the
Department of Computer Science &
Engineering
at the
University
of Washington
.
Software engineering is a diverse area, and the projects and faculty
in our department reflect that.  In general, we are interested in
ensuring that complex software systems exhibit specific properties.
Recently, the three properties that we have focused on are:
software safety
(
Nancy
Leveson
), which concerns how to guarantee that systems with
embedded software cause no harm to human life, the environment, or
property; ease of evolution (
David Notkin
),
which concerns reducing the costs and complexity of changing software
systems over time; and real-time attributes (
Alan
Shaw
), which concerns understanding and guaranteeing that certain
timing constraints are satisfied.
In addition to continuing work on these and related properties, our
current work is characterized in two ways.  First, we are interested
in understanding how properties interact: for instance, how does one
(or can one) build safe systems that can be modified easily?  Second,
what are the problems that arise in the construction of real software
systems?  We have a history of working on such systems; our group has
had interactions with the FAA on TCAS, the collison avoidance system
now found on all planes of over 30 passengers, with Microsoft on
helping them with an experimental restructuring of their 1.2 million
line Excel product, and with local medical device companies who need
to demonstrate that their products satisfy both safety and timing
requirements.
Faculty, students, etc.  interested primarily in software engineering
are listed below, but other people in the department dabble in
software engineering research and education from time to time.


People


Courses


Various bibliographies



Miscellaneous



Software engineering conference announcements


More software engineering conference announcements


18th International Conference on Software Engineering


17th International Conference on Software Engineering


Software Engineering Information outside UW









Back to
UW CSE Home Page




notkin@cs.washington.edu



