MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: WebSTAR/1.2.5 ID/4739
Message-ID:
Date: Tuesday, 10-Dec-96 15:00:45 GMT
Last-Modified: Monday, 28-Oct-96 17:25:04 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 5903


University Book Store







Thank you for visiting University Book Store via the World Wide Web and welcome to one of the largest college stores and independent book sellers in the United States.
University Book Store has been serving the
University of Washington
and the greater Seattle/Bellevue metropolitan area since 1900 and has become the ultimate resource for general books, professional and technical reference books, children's books and other educational products and services.  Customers both here in the Seattle area and throughout the U.S. and beyond have come to appreciate our expansive selection, competitive prices, and prompt, reliable services.





GENERAL AND REFERENCE BOOKS


Our General and Reference Book Departments offer one of the most comprehensive selections of current book titles to be found in the U.S.,  with over 150,000 titles in 750 subject categories.  Many of these titles are discounted and we ship books throughout the U.S. with
no additional charge for postage and handling
.  To order or inquire about the availability or a price of a book you may go directly to our
Order/Inquiry
page.  Or you may want to take advantage of some of the many book related
Customer Services
we offer.



TEXTBOOKS


Our Textbook department carries primarily the textbooks being used in the University of Washington regular and extension classes.  However, we carry many additional new and used textbooks and students from other colleges and universities can often find the books they need here.  Our Textbook department also carries one of the largest selections of study aids and test preparation materials found anywhere.  To order or inquire about the availability and price of a book you may go directly to our
Order/Inquiry
page.  To find more information on buying and selling textbooks for University of Washington classes, go to
Textbooks
.



COMPUTERS & ELECTRONICS


Our Computer and Electronics department offers a wide selection of computer hardware and software at special prices to students, faculty and staff of the University of Washington and other academic institutions.  Visit our
Apple Computers for Education
(ACE) desk for information and pricing on Apple hardware.  Academic pricing is also available on Dell and IBM computers.  We carry over 300
academic software
titles from A to Z.
Note:  "ACE" pages are available to "washington.edu" connections only!

Welcome to the UNIVERSITY BOOK STORE KID'S PAGE

Kids will find many reasons to get excited about our children's book
departments at our University District and Bellevue stores. University Book
Store is all about learning and you will find we stock the Northwest's largest
selection of books, including thousands of great titles for children. You
will also find a huge selection of software that makes learning fun.



HUSKY HIGHLIGHTS


Our Husky Highlights department offers the best in University of Washington sweatshirts, T-shirts, and souvenirs.



CUSTOMER SERVICES


You'll be amazed at the variety of Customer Services we offer.



STORE LOCATIONS & HOURS


University Book Store serves customers from Washington's Puget Sound region from seven store locations.



MAIL, PHONE & ELECTRONIC ORDERING


You can place orders by telephone (toll-free), mail, email, and fax.  We ship books anywhere in the United States
free of charge
.  We'll even
gift wrap
your purchase if you wish, also free of charge.



SPECIAL EVENTS


Throughout the year, we present author lectures, readings, and autograph parties.  Look what General Book and Children's Book events we have in store for you.



STORE HISTORY


We're proud to be celebrating our 95th year serving customers of the University of Washington and the Puget Sound area.



PATRONAGE REFUND


University Book Store returns a portion of its earnings, in excess of those reasonably required for the Store's operation and growth, to University of Washington students, faculty and staff in the form of an annual Patronage Refund.


COMMENTS

Send your thoughts and comments to Bryan Pearce at
bdpearce@u.washington.edu
.  For book inquiries and orders, refer to the
Mail, Phone & Electronic Ordering
page.








Copyright © 1995-96 University Book Store





