Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 20:32:38 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html


The RaPiD Project



RaPiD: Reconfigurable Pipelined Datapath

Adventures in Configurable Computing
RaPiD is a coarse-grained FPGA architecture that allows deeply
pipelined computational datapaths to be constructed dynamically from a
mix of ALUs, multipliers, and other functional units along with
registers and local memories.  The goal is to compile regular
computations like those found in DSP applications into both an
application-specific datapath and a program that provides control for
that datapath.  The datapath control signals are divided into static
and dynamic signals.  The static control signals determine the
underlying structure of the datapath that remains constant for a
particular application.  The dynamic control signals can change from
cycle to cycle and specify the variable part of the computation, for
example operations that change during the computation.

The current definition of RaPiD is biased strongly towards linear
pipelines constructed of linear arrays of functional units
communicating in mostly a nearest-neighbor fashion.  Linear systolic
arrays, for example, map very nicely into RaPiD datapaths, which allows
the considerable amount of research on compiling to systolic arrays to
be applied to compiling computations to RaPiD.  RaPiD is not limited
to implementing systolic arrays, however.  For example, a pipeline can
be constructed which comprises different computations at different
stages and at different times.
The concept of RaPiD can be extended to 2-D arrays of functional
units.  However, dynamically configuring 2-D arrays is much more
difficult and the underlying communication structure is much more
costly.  Since most 2-D computations can be computed efficiently using
a linear array, so a 2-D RaPiD may not be necessary.
RaPiD is aimed at tasks that are highly structured and repetitive and
whose control flow is very regular with little data dependency.
Examples include most DSP applications and many scientific computing
tasks.  It is expected that a RaPiD array will be integrated closely
with a RISC processor, possibly on the same chip, with RISC
controlling the overall computational flow and farming out the
heavy-duty computation requiring brute force computing to RaPiD.
The computational bandwidth provided by a RaPiD array is extremely
high and scales with the size of the array.  The input and output data
bandwidth, however, is limited to the data memory bandwidth which does
not scale.  Thus the amount of computation performed per I/O operation
bounds the amount of parallelism and thus the speedup an application
can exhibit when implemented using RaPiD.  The RaPiD architecture
assumes that at most three memory accesses are made per cycle which is
about the limit high-performance memory architectures can provide.




Rapidly working people

Faculty



Carl Ebeling


Graduate students



Darren Cronquist


Paul Franklin


Jason Secosky


Undergraduate students



Jeff Weener


Kent Smith


Staff



Chris Fisher


Larry McMurchie



List of Papers

Carl Ebeling, Darren C. Cronquist, Paul Franklin.

"RaPiD - Reconfigurable
Pipelined Datapath"
, in
The 6th International Workshop on
Field-Programmable Logic and Applications, 1996
.

RaPiD sponsors


ARPA under contract N00014-J-91-4041
National Science Graduate Fellowship (Franklin)
IBM Graduate Fellowship (Cronquist)

UW LIS


Department of Computer Science and Engineering


University of Washington

Last updated
Thu July 11 12:34:47 PDT 1996


