Date: Mon, 17 Feb 1997 22:03:45 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 7658
Last-modified: Thu, 09 Jan 1997 22:09:31 GMT

Kris' Insignificant Contribution to the World Wide Web




Kris'
Insignificant Contribution to the
World
Wide Web
(Still in the planning phase...not even under construction yet!)
(Actually, it is under construction, but I didn't want to contribute to
the over use of the phrase "under construction."  Ironically, I think I
just have.  Can't win in this world, can you?)
(Last edited 01/06/97)

(Now is it the month first then the day or the day first then the
month?) (And what year is it anyway?)


Quote of the however-often-I-change-it Is this an insult or a
compliment?  Hmmm...

Elinor agreed to it all, for she did not believe he deserved
the compliment of rational opposition.
(From a book by Jane Austen)
Hint:  To get to the interesting stuff, visit my friends' home
pages.


Links that I actually use!



Movienet


Metro bus
timetables.


Hint2: No eating or drinking while visiting my homepage.


Sites dealing with my favorite author



Jane
Austen's Letters.
(Lots of other cool info too!)

Persuasion
(the recent movie)

Sense and Sensibility
(the recent movie)

Emma
(the recent movie)
Clueless (no, I don't have a link to information on this movie)


My classes

(Actually, these are my classes, but links
take you somewhere else.  The cs department, in its infinite wisdom,
has stopped naming homepages in a predicable pattern, so I won't correct
the links until I know the addresses.
CSE 457--Computer Graphics.
I'll learn to write code to make
Toy Story.  (That was a joke, people.)
CSE 451--Operating Systems

Math 425
-- Some unexplainable abstract math course that the average reader of this
page would find pointless.
Islamic Civlization (Nope, no link here.)

Hint3: I haven't setup an mailto thingy, but I have been
getting my homework done.  Should you want to mail me, my address is
hildrum@u.washington.edu (actually, I haven't set up a mailto thingy
because I've never been able to use them and not having a mailto
thingy makes my page unique.)


Links to the homepages of friends


Kris Nelson's Home
Page (He's in Spain, so this probably hasn't been updated recently)

John Dockstader's Homepage.

Amy's Home Page

U.W. Home Page
(Not exactly
a friend, but I spend a lot of time with it, so...)
This is the place where I would but a link to the homepage of my
boyfriend if my boyfriend had a home page (hint hint John).
Technically,
he does have a home page, but it says "go 'way" on it, so I decided not to
link to it.

Hint4: I really like useless little hints.


Hint5: There's a little bit of information about myself hiding
at the end of this page.

All About Me

School
This fall was my fourth fall here at the U.  In theory, I should
be ready to graduate at the end of this year.  However, for a variety of
reasons, mostly boiling down to the fact that I kinda like school, I'm not
graduating until next year.  When I do graduate, I'll graduate with honors
in Computer Science and a math degree.  I also have a dream of traveling
to Spain for a quarter, but that may be more fantasy than reality.
As you might have guessed from the previous paragraph, I am
majoring in both Math and Computer Science.  I like both subjects very
much, though in different ways.  Math I like with a sort of quiet
satisfaction.  Computer Science I like because I get a chance to program,
which can be very, very fun (okay, so I am a nerd--but so is Bill Gates).
Programming, at least for me, can be as frustrating at its worst moments
as it can be fun at its best.
Family
I have two brothers, one of whom is here at the U.W.  He runs
cross country, and doesn't yet have a major.  My other brother is in 10th
grade (I would have used that cool word for 10th grader, but I can't
spell) at Hazen High School.
My father, Jon Hildrum, hangs out all the time on MSN.  He also is
the one who maintains and upgrades my computer.  (I have a fairly nice
computer because of that, too.)  My mom seems to view computers with
suspision.  I think she would almost prefer a typewriter.
I'm also lucky enough (I wanted to say "blessed" but I'm
agnostic, and I don't want to give the wrong impression.) to have a great
deal of my mother's family within driving distance.  (Of course, this is
kinda balanced out by the fact that all my Dad's family is in Norway.)
Fun
Fun?  See the school section.  Seriously, for the most part, I
kinda enjoy school.  Probably the way my brother enjoys running.
But what do I do outside of school, you ask.  Well, I volunteer at
the Seattle Aquarium (first Saturday of the month 2-6).  I'm not sure if I
actually enjoy this, though.  I do like talking to people, and there is
that ocassional child (or more often adult) who seems really interested in
the animals, and it is fun to talk to those sort of people.

Like most people, I have friends, and occassionally, my
friends
and I get together and have a wild video watching party, complete with
drinking (of water, orange juice, and most important, milk).  I also quite
enjoy the computer game Civilization (I'm good enough to win occasionally
on Prince). I once played from 9pm until 4am without noticing that any
time had passed. It was then that I realized that aliens were using
Civilization to distract me so that they could kidnap me, so I stopped
playing. (Actually, I haven't played civ recently because I found a
similar but better game--Master of Magic.)
I also enjoy reading, in
particular, I really like Jane Austen.  (It would be hard not to notice
this if you had seen the rest of my page.)  I think she's quite funny, and
her charactors are delightful, either for the wickedness or for their near
perfection. When I'm in an escapist mood, and I've reread Jane Austen too
recent for it to be much of an escape, I sometimes read Science
Fiction/Fantasy novels.  I used to enjoy Tolkien very much, and I'll
probably enjoy it again in the future.  I also find myself reading Jean M.
Auel, for no reason I can understand.  Right now, in addition to reading
snippets from the familar books around my room, I'm reading _A Brief
History of Time_.  Fun book, but I wish that there was more math in it.
p.s. Spelling corrections may be mailed to hildrum@u.washington.edu
p.p.s.  All spelling corrections will be promptly deleted.
p.p.p.s.  Actually, at some point, I will probably correct the spelling
errors on this page, but that point isn't now.

