Date: Mon, 02 Dec 1996 17:29:16 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html

CSE 457 Syllabus








1996 Autumn Quarter





Syllabus

Administrivia:



Time:
MWF 2:30-3:20

Place:
Loew 101


Course personnel




Prerequisites:


Data structures (CSE/326)
A good working knowledge of C and C++ programming
Linear algebra
Some mathematical sophistication
(No prior knowledge of graphics is assumed.)


Required Text:


Foley, van Dam, Feiner, Hughes.
Computer
Graphics Principles and Practice
, Second Edition in C. Addison Wesley, 1996.

Optional texts:



OpenGL Reference Manual
. Addison-Wesley, 1992.
Jackie Neider, Tom Davis, and Mason Woo.
OpenGL Programming
Guide
. Addison-Wesley, 1993.
Josie Wernecke,
The Inventor Mentor
. Addison-Wesley, 1994.


Grading:


Project (same grade for whole team): 30%+
Project knowledge (individual): 15%
Project write-up (individual): 5%
Project artifact (individual): 5%+
Written assignments: 25%
Final: 20%
(A "+" denotes an area in which extra credit can be earned.)

Projects:
This is the second year that CSE/457 is being taught using our new
graphics instructional lab
consisting of 14
Silicon Graphics Indy R4400s.  The lab is located in Sieg 228.
There will be four projects.  You'll work indvidually only on the
first project (Project #0).  For the next three projects, you'll work
with a team of 2 to 3 students.  Each project will require you and
your teammate to make substantial extensions to an existing
interactive graphical application.  The projects we have in mind are:

Project 0:
Mandelbrot
:
A simple program to create pictures of a Mandelbrot set.
Project 1:
Morph
:
A program to create video animations by ``morphing'' (blending)
between a pair of images.
Project 2:
Sweeper
:
A program to create complex surfaces by extruding (sweeping) a
curve along a path in three dimensions.
Project 3:
Trace
:
A program to create beautiful raytraced images, complete with
shadows, reflections, and transparent effects.
Projects will be graded during in-person sessions with one of the
TAs
. During the grading session, a TA will run
the project to make sure that it conforms to the project guidelines.
The TA will then quiz individual members of the team to determine how
well they understand the structure of the code, the design trade-offs,
and the implemented algorithms.
One grade will be assigned for all members of the team for the
project's implementation.  Separate grades will be recorded for each
team member's "knowledge of the project."  A third component of the
grade is based on your individual project write-up.  The last
component of the grade involves using your project to create an
artifact
, hopefully, of some artistic merit.  Extra credit
will be given for the nicest artifacts, as determined by class vote.
Click here
for more information
on project grading.
Project Turn-in & Late Policy:
Assignments are due at the beginning of lecture on the due date.
This means that the modification stamp on the project executable
must be earlier than the start of lecture on the due date. Late
assignments are marked down at a rate of 33% per day (not per
lecture), meaning that if you fail to turn in an assignment on time
it is worth 66% for the first 24 hours after the deadline, 33%
for the next 24 hours, and it is worth nothing after that.  In
addition,
no extra credit for bells and whistles will be awarded
for any late assignment
.
Exceptions will be given only in extreme circumstances and only
in advance.

