Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 23:10:40 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 23 Oct 1996 20:38:04 GMT
Content-length: 6016


Michel Abdalla's HomePage







Michel Ferreira Abdalla
Ph.D Student

University of California, San Diego


Department of Computer Science and
Engineering

P.O. Box 0144
La Jolla, California 92097



Email
:
mabdalla@cs.ucsd.edu








Biography



Since 1988 I have been engaged in several research and teaching
activities. My special area of interest is Computer Networks, with
emphasis to multimedia applications and high-speed communication
systems with quality of service guarantees.
During the period of 1989 to 1990 I was granted four teaching
assistantships at the Mathematics Institute of UFRJ.  The subjects
of the courses were Computing I, Linear Algebra II, Infinitesimal
Calculus III, and Differential and Integral Calculus II.
In the period of 1990 to 1991 I was awarded a first research
assistantship from a Sponsored Brazilian Research Institute to work
at the Mathematics Institute. This project was concerned with several
Linear Algebra topics embracing the study of Algebraic Computation
and making use of the C programming language and some mathematical
software tools to implement several factorization technics for
polynomials.
In my undergraduate senior year (1991 to 1993) I was awarded a second
research assistantship to work in two Audio projects at the Department
of Electrical Engineering at UFRJ, concerning the study of the
electronic sound synthesis. In the first project an electronic
drum was developed. The second one consisted in the implementation
of a digital voice recorder and player.
In the middle of 1992, I took part in the Computer Network Research
Group (GTA) at the Department of Electrical Engineering at COPPE/UFRJ.
At This time I was involved in the study of the concepts of Computer
Networks defined in the Reference Model for Open Systems Interconnection,
and also in the study and development of formal description techniques.
My undergraduate project consisted in the implementation of an
integrated environment for Petri Net analysis, including the development
of a text editor, a compiler, an analyzer and an on-line help.
By 1993 I started to work in a system development company as a
system analyst. During this period, I took part in the development
of a satellite vehicle locating system.
By 1994 I started my M.Sc. course in the Department of Electrical
Engineering at COPPE/UFRJ in the particular area of Computer Networks.
the topic of my thesis was concerned with the study of
Connection Admission Control (CAC) mechanisms for ATM networks such as
Equivalent Capacity, Non-parametric aproach, Heavy-traffic approach,
Dynamic CAC, Hybrid CAC, etc.
The main objectives were to analyze and to compare the
performance of these mechanisms by means of simulation and analitical
analysis and to
give support for an implementation in the real time communication
system architecture developed by the GTA.
By October 1996, I started my Ph.D. at the University of California
at San Diego. My interest in realizing  a Ph.D. course is a
consequence of the need of improvement of my academic and professional
background.  As in Brazil there is an urgent need for qualified engineers
to maintain the country updated with the state of art of the new
technologies, the realization of this Doctorate Course will enrich my
research in Computer Networks and will contribute for the improvement
of our courses in the graduate and undergraduate levels.




Technical Reports





TR-95-1
Abdalla, M. F. and Duarte, O. C. M. B. - ``Controle de Admissão
de Conexão em Redes ATM'', October 1995.
Portuguese, A4 , 23 p.


TR-94-1
Abdalla, M. F. and Duarte, O. C. M. B. - ``Caracterização
e Modelagem de Tráfego Agregado em Redes ATM'', September 1994.
Portuguese, A4 , 23 p., File: AbDu94.ps.gz




Undergraduate Final Project




``Um Ambiente Integrado para Análise de Redes de Petri''
DEL/EE/UFRJ - June 1993 - Portuguese - A4 size
Supervisors: Marcelo Luiz D. Lanza and João Amaro B. Pereira





M.Sc. Thesis





``Análise de Mecanismos de Controle de Admissão
de Conexão para Redes ATM''
COPPE/PEE/UFRJ - September 1996 - Portuguese - A4 size - 132p.
Supervisor: Otto Carlos Muniz Bandeira Duarte





Bookmarks







I support it!!!



Under Construction

© Michel Ferreira Abdalla , 1996
(
mabdalla@cs.ucsd.edu
)

Last Updated:
September 27, 1996











