Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 17:49:44 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Mon, 16 Sep 1996 23:04:04 GMT
Content-length: 3437



HomePage for Robert Efroymson



Robert Efroymson

refromsn@cs.unm.edu
This page is currently under construction (goes without saying).
It also goes without saying that the opinions herein are mine own, and
not those of UNM, the CS department, etc. etc.
I am studying Computer Science here at the UNM
Department of Computer Science
.
I started a web page for
Hillel
, the
campus organization for Jewish students, but I no longer maintain it.  Some of my other interests are skiing,
karate
,
politics
,
chess
,
and not watching
television.  I am working on a list of reasons
why tv should be banned
, all I can find on the net are fan groups for various shows.
I also am interested in providing a place for people to up and down
load
disklavier music
.  Anybody out there have a disklavier and the
willingness to record some public domain music for others to hear?
Interested in my officemates?
Karthik
has an interesting page, check out the great pictures of Madras . . .
How about my
friends
?
Here is my hypothetical FAQ (answers to questions that I think you
might ask).
Why are there no pictures on this page?  Some people may think it is
because I am
lazy
. It is really because I believe that
lynx
is the web browser of the
future.   Really, it lets you concentrate on what people have to say
without being distracted by a bunch of silly pictures they put on
their page.  And as an environmentalist, I don't believe in wasting
precious network bandwidth sending pictures and such back and forth
across the net.  Text is efficient!  Even if a picture is worth a
thousand words, the typical picture is a lot bigger than a thousand
words, so you would be better off with the words.
Why is my email the awkward refromsn?  Well, I was told that tradition
dictated that my email consist of my first initial followed by my last
name.  And that it had to fit within eight characters.  As you can
see, my last name alone has more than that many letters, so I had to
cut some out.  I guess I could have chosen something more easily
remembered, but it is too late now to do anything about it.
Why is this sloppy half-constructed page on the Web?  I figure that if
I know it is out here, and people can look at it, it will give me an
incentive to work on it, sort of shame me into polishing it as it
were.  Of course that probably won't happen, and it will stay just as
it is for rather a while . . .
What editor do I like?  Emacs of course, vi gives me hives.  I am even
using emacs to write this, and checking my work with
lynx
which may explain a certain amount of the awkwardness of the page.  I
suppose that I should use a real html editor, but couldn't there be an
html mode for emacs.  I don't have one though.

Needless to say, if you have any comments or suggestions, please send
them on, I will be happy to respond.
refromsn@cs.unm.edu



