Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 21:56:13 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 31 Jul 1996 21:10:51 GMT
Content-length: 5933


Alexander Huber's Personal Web Page





Alexander Huber

Graduate assistant
Office Phone: +1-419-372-0216
Office: 247 Hayes Hall







In case you wanna marry me ... here's what you have to expect!



Interest
Description


Music

My CD collection comprises about 300 items. I have some preference for hip hop and my favourite record label is Talking Loud, but I would call my music taste pretty versatile. If you wanna listen to something really cool, I have two advices for you:
Portishead
and
Guru's Jazzmatazz
! And just for your information - the split of Take That was definitely the best thing to happen in '96.
In my opinion the 80s were a superb decade concerning music. However, the 90s are going to be even better! And there's one musician I really would like to go to bed with:
Lisa Stansfield
!



Soccer

Well, I'm playing soccer myself and consequently I'm interested in that redneck stuff. Right now I'm taking a break since those stupid Americans prefer action packed sync swimming, golf, and turning into couch potatoes. My favourite team is
SV Casino Salzburg
, but they suck right at the moment.
Rapid Wien
is a fantastic team, too. My favourite player is Hans Krankl, who was mostly responsible for Salzburg's promotion to the premiere league. And of course, Rupert Schoenauer is for sure the best offense man I've ever seen!


Movies

Probably,
Bogie
is my all-time favourite, but
Robert De Niro
,
Jack Nicholson
, and
Mickey Rourke
are great, too. Vintage black-and-white movies are without doubt the best, but there is also some superb contemporary stuff such as Pulp Fiction, Romeo is Bleeding, or Man Bites Dog. My favourite location on the Web to check out movie information is the
Internet Movie Database
.
And don't forget: there's just one genuine James Bond - Sean Connery!


American crime novels

There aren't many good German writers around. There're just two I really appreciate: Siegfried Lenz and - forgive me-
Karl May
. Once, I wrote a novel myself and I can tell you, it's damn hard to come up with something exciting.
But Americans, well, they know how to write a novel, especially hardboiled crime fiction! My personal Number One is
Andrew Vachss
. The funniest guy is probably
Joseph Wambaugh
, followed by Charles Willeford. The toughest author beside Vachss seems to be James Ellroy. Check it out, yo!


Beer

Since my home country is
Austria
, practically I grew up with beer. The city I come from has got Austria's largest independent brewery and you can see their logo to the left. Anyway, Stiegl isn't my favourite beer, I rather prefer Gösser. There is a place in
Salzburg
called Gösser Stubn where all my friends meet each Sunday to have a couple of beers. This convention is called "Stammtisch" and normally you really get shitfaced.
Here in USA my favourite brands are Red Dog and Guinness. The best bar in BG is BW-3. C ya there!


Multimedia

To finish my Computer Science studies in Austria, I'm supposed to write some kind of thesis. The topic of this document is
Multimedia Protocols and QoS Constraints
. I've started to research in this area here in Bowling Green and hope to be finished in fall '96. You can catch a
glimpse
of it. But be aware: this site is still under construction!


V.I.P. Lounge

This site is a tribute to all my
friends
back in Austria and to some I got acquainted with here at
BGSU
. As you will see they encompass a wide spectrum of interests and consequently when we join together to have a couple of beers most verbal contributions are either funny, intriguing, very intellectual or just absolutetly beyond the frontier of this planet. I'd be pretty braindead without them!



Last modified: 06/08/96
E-Mail:
huber@cs.bgsu.edu



