Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:53:09 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6641
Last-modified: Tue, 05 Nov 1996 16:55:10 GMT

Steven Abrams

Steven Abrams

<abrams@cs.columbia.edu>


Contact the
Electronic Frontier
Foundation
for more information on their
"Free Speech Online Blue Ribbon
Campaign."
Now... getting back to me and my research which is, presumably, the
reason you clicked your way over here in the first place.
I'm currrently a sixth-year PhD student in Columbia University's
Department of Computer Science working under
Prof. Peter
Allen
.  My primary research interest is in the field of sensor
planning in an active robot work-cell.  (Click
here
to learn more about the project.)
I do some work in computational geometry, (right now) mostly
concerned with the efficient computation of the volumes swept by
moving polyhedra.  This is part of the sensor planning work.
Another research interst is the development of large-scale
distributed, object-oriented systems for, among other things, the
control of large, multi-sensor robot systems with multiple planning
components.  Other research interests include numerical optimization
techniques, high-level machine vision, and general 3-D geometric
modeling for machine vision.
I also work for Stratasys at their new New York location.
They are a developer and manufacturer of rapid prototyping systems.
The
Manufacturing &
Engineering Services
group of the
Manufacturing
Technologies Department
of the
Alberta Research Council
has provided a very nice description of
Rapid Prototyping
if you are interested in learning more about it.
Outside of computer science... I'm a music lover. I  like to
listen to, perform, and compose all types of music from Gregorian
chants to modern ``new-age'' synthesized music, although my true
musical passions are jazz, funk, and fusion. I also love dogs.
So I just had to make sure that
Brandy, my dog,
has his own home page.

Some interesting places to go...


Brandy,
my sheltie, has his own web page
with pictures and pointers to other neat dog-related internet sites.
The
Columbia Robotics
Lab
home page.

New York City
Information Page

The Carnegie-Melon
Computer Vision Home Page (with icons - slow)

The Carnegie-Melon
Computer Vision Home Page (without icons - faster)

The U-Mass
Robotics Internet Resources Page



Publications

Steven Abrams and Peter K. Allen.
Swept Volumes and Their Use in Viewpoint Computation in Robot Work-Cells.
To appear
Proceedings
IEEE International Symposium on Assembly and Task Planning
,
Pittsburgh, PA, August, 1995.
Steven Abrams and Peter K. Allen.
Computing Swept Volumes for Sensor Planning Tasks.
In
Proceedings
Proceedings 1994 DARPA Image Understanding Workshop.

Steven Abrams, Peter K. Allen, and Konstantinos A. Tarabanis.
Dynamic sensor planning.
In
International Conference on Intelligent Autonomous Systems
,
Pittsburgh, PA, February 1993.
Steven Abrams, Peter K. Allen, and Konstantinos A. Tarabanis.
Dynamic sensor planning.
In
Proceedings 1993 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation
,
Atlanta, GA, May 1993.
Also in Proceedings DARPA 1993 Image Understanding Workshop.
Steven Abrams and Peter K. Allen.  Sensor planning in an active robotic work
cell.  In
Proceedings SPIE Intelligent Robotic Systems Conference on
Sensor Fusion IV: Control Paradigms and Data Structures
, Boston, MA,
November 1991.
Also in Proceedings DARPA 1992 Image Understanding Workshop.
S. R. Abrams, J. S. Batchelder, R. T. Farouki, J. U. Korein, J. D. Korein,
V. Srinivasan, and K. Tarabanis.
A method for fabricatind mechanical parts and models by shelving.
U. S. Patent Application, IBM Docket Y0994-006, 1994.
S. R. Abrams, J. U. Korein, V. Srinivasan, and K. Tarabanis.
Method and apparatus employing sequential two-dimensional geometry
for producing shells for fabrication by a rapid prototyping system.
U. S. Patent Application, IBM Docket Y0992-172, 1993.
Aleksandar Timcenko, Steven Abrams, and Peter K. Allen.
APHRODITE: Intelligent planning, control and sensing in a
distributed robotic system.
In
International Conference on Intelligent Autonomous Systems
,
Pittsburgh, PA, February 1993.





Best viewed with Netscape Navigator.
Download
Netscape
Now!






Best experienced with



Click Here to start.



