Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:51:44 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.5
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6317
Last-modified: Wed, 02 Oct 1996 23:31:30 GMT

Katherine Lee Morse





Katherine Lee Morse



Area: Computer Systems Design (CSD)
Advisor:
Lubomir Bic

Office: CS/E 201
Office Tel: (714)824-6306
Office Fax: (714)824-4056
E-mail:
kmorse@ics.uci.edu


Education


B.S. Mathematics with Distinction,
University of Arizona
, 1982
B.A. Russian with Distinction,
University of Arizona
, 1983
M.S. Computer Science,
University of Arizona
, 1986
M.S. Information & Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine
, 1996
Ph.D. Information & Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine
,
in progress (1997 or 1998; see the
Number One Lie Told by Graduate Students
)

Research

My research is on improving the performance of Large Scale Distributed
Simulations through Interest Management, aka data subscription, data
distribution management, or relevance filtering.  I've recently completed a
survey of previous work in the area.  Almost all of the work in this area
to date has been targeted at
Distributed Interactive Simulation
(DIS) systems.  Most of the previous
implementations of Interest Management
have been fundamentally static.  My work attempts to make dynamic Interest
Management feasible using an autonomous objects paradigm.  I'll be using a
system called
MESSENGERS
which is being developed by my advisor's research group, most
notably
Munehiro Fukuda
.
Employment

When I'm not at UCI, I'm working to support my education habit, which
unfortunately takes up more of my time than I'd like.  But, hey, living in
Southern California isn't cheap.  I've been working in industry for over
10 years in the areas of simulation, compilers, operating systems, computer
security, neural networks, speech recognition, image processing, and
engineering process development.  I'm a senior computer scientist
at
SAIC
currently supporting the
Defense Modeling & Simulation Office's
work in data distribution management for the
High Level Architecture
.
You will notice that this is conveniently related to my research at UCI.
Publications


Katherine L. Morse,
"
Interest Management in Large Scale Distributed Simulations
,"
UCI Technical Report #96-27.
M. Fukuda, K. Morse, L. Bic, M. Dillencourt, D. Menzel and E. Lee,
"A Novel Approach to Toxicology Simulation Based on Autonomous Objects
,"
Proceedings of the Conference on Simulation in the Medical Sciences, 1996.
Katherine L. Morse,
"Parallel Distributed Simulation in ModSim,"
Proceedings of the 10th Annual International Conference on Parallel Processing, 1990.
David L. Drake and Katherine L. Morse,
"
The Security Specific Eight Stage Risk Assessment Methodology
,"
Proceedings of the 17th National Computer Security Conference, 1994.  (Also available in
postscript
.)
David L. Drake and Katherine L. Morse,
"
Applying the Eight Stage Risk Assessment Methodology to Firewalls
,"
To be published in the Proceedings of the 19th National Information Systems Security Conference, 1996.

Important Stuff


Support your right to free speech on the Internet.  The recently passed
Telecommunications Reform Act strips us of our First Amendment rights in
Cyberspace.
Be informed.
Fight back!

I'm a member of UCI's Women in Computer Science
(WICS)
group.  WICS gives female students and faculty in the department a forum for networking and discussing issues which are unique to our position in a traditionally male-dominated field.

Fun Stuff

Pictures!  Pictures!  Pictures!

The Concuspidor and the Grand Wizard of Many Things

Here's my pick for favorite web site.  I won a cool t-shirt by drawing the
winning entry in the
Concuspidor ASCII art
contest.  Some day I promise to put up a picture of me in the t-shirt,
hopefully standing in the Pacific surf.

The Top Ten Lies Told by Graduate Students
(taken from the Harvard Crimson)

No really, I'll be out of here in only two more years.
My job prospects look really good.
The department is giving me so much support.
I just have one more book to read and then I'll start writing.
I turned down a lot of great job offers to come here.
Your latest article was so inspiring.
I would never date an undergraduate.
My work has a lot of practical importance.
I'd be delighted to proofread your book/chapter/article.
It doesn't bother me at all that my college roommate is making $80,000
a year on Wall Street.




Information and Computer Science

University of California, Irvine
CA 92717-3425
Last modified: 2 October 1996

