Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:52:54 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.5
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 7411
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Nov 1996 10:32:01 GMT


Joe Hummel


Information last modified November 14, 1996

Joe Hummel


Area: Computer Systems Design
Advisor: Alex Nicolau
Electronic Mail:
jhummel@ics.uci.edu

Office: CSE 205
Office Phone: (714) 824-2248

Research Project:

Brief description:

Compilers, program optimization, and data dependence testing in the presence
of dynamic, pointer-based data structures.

Long description:

Data structures are important solution components in many programs, since
the proper choice of data structure can greatly impact the efficiency of
the resulting application.  This is well-known to FORTRAN programmers, where
arrays serve as the primary data structure.  Recently however, given the
increasing use of languages such as Ada, C, C++, and FORTRAN 90, data
structures built using pointers and dynamic memory allocation are more
prevalent.  These types of structures --- linked-lists, trees, DAGs --- present
new and difficult analysis and optimization problems for the compiler
writer.  The objective of our work is to solve these problems, thereby
enabling the parallelization of such codes.
Our approach is to create a data dependence testing framework targeted
towards program code involving dynamic, pointer-based data structures.  Our
framework has three components: (1) property collection, (2) path collection,
and (3) dependence testing.  To enable accurate dependence testing, the
compiler must collect both information about the properties of the data
structure (e.g. tree vs. DAG) and information about the memory locations
being manipulated in the data structure.  The former are represented as
axioms about the structure, the latter as paths through the structure.
Given this information, the dependence testing component applies
theorem proving, in a general and decidable way, to determine dependences
in the code.
To date we have implemented a prototype of our data dependence testing
framework, and successfully parallelized a number of important codes
involving complex data structures.  These codes include the N-body problem,
Sparse matrices, and a 3D electromagnetic simulation based on Bipartite
graphs.  Speedups were linear to near-linear on a shared-memory
multiprocessor.
Our work is crucial to optimizing and parallelizing compilers, since
dependence information directly impacts the application of numerous
performance-enhancing transformations.  The more accurate the dependence
information, the more chances for optimization and parallelization
at all levels (from low-level instruction scheduling to source-level
loop transformations).  Our work represents the first accurate and
general mechanism for data dependence testing in the presense of
dynamic, pointer-based data structures.

Publications:

Refereed Journal Articles and Book Chapters



Chapter 2: Path Collection and Dependence Testing in the Presence
of Dynamic, Pointer-Based Data Structures,

(full text in postscript)

Languages, Compilers and Run-Time Systems for Scalable Computers
(Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop)
,
editors B. Szymanski and B. Sinharoy, Kluwer Academic Publishers,
pp. 15--27, May 1995,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

A Simple Mechanism for Improving the Accuracy and Efficiency of
Instruction-level Disambiguation,

(full text in postscript)

Languages and Compilers for Parallel Computing
(August 1995),
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
volume 1033, pp. 289-303,
Springer-Verlag, 1996,
by S. Novack and J. Hummel and A. Nicolau.

Abstract Description of Pointer Data Structures:  An Approach
for Improving the Analysis and Optimization of Imperative Programs,

(full text in postscript)

ACM Letters on Programming Languages and Systems
,
1(3), pp. 243-260, September 1992,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

Refereed Conference Papers



A Framework for Data Dependence Testing in the Presence of Pointers,

(full text in postscript)

Proceedings of the 23rd Annual International Conference on Parallel
Processing
,
pp. 216--224, August 1994,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

A General Data Dependence Test for Dynamic, Pointer-Based Data Structures,

(full text in postscript)

Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Conference on Programming Language
Design and Implementation
,
pp. 218--229, June 1994,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

A Language for Conveying the Aliasing Properties of Dynamic,
Pointer-Based Data Structures,

(full text in postscript)

Proceedings of the 8th International Parallel Processing Symposium
,
pp. 208--216, April 1994,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

Applying an Abstract Data Structure Description Approach to Parallelizing
Scientific Pointer Programs,

(full text in postscript)

Proceedings of the 21st Annual International Conference on Parallel
Processing
,
pp. 100--104, August 1992,
by J. Hummel and L. Hendren and A. Nicolau.

Abstractions for Recursive Pointer Data Structures: Improving
the Analysis and Transformation of Imperative Programs,

(full text in postscript)

Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN '92 Conference on Programming Language
Design and Implementation
,
pp. 249--260, June 1992,
by L. Hendren and J. Hummel and A. Nicolau.


Other Interests:

Sailing, teaching, and teaching sailing.  Visits to Washington, D.C. to
see Beth.  In fact, here's a recent
picture
of us in New Zealand...
If you like sailing...  We sailed from Fiji to New Zealand
aboard a 65' racing sloop owned and operated by Orange Coast College;
the boat is called Alaska Eagle, and is an old Whitbread winner (Flyer).
Pictures?  Here's a goofy
picture
of me driving; a
picture
of "A watch" (Brad,
Scott [the skipper], myself, and Ray [not pictured since he's driving]);
a
picture
of myself atop
Roberts Island (Bay of Islands, NZ); and finally a
picture
of a bunch of us
atop Roberts Island (facing the other way -- you can just make out
the mighty Eagle anchored in the background, lower right).  What a trip!



Department of Information and Computer Science
,
University of California, Irvine
CA 92717-3425



