Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:51:11 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6271
Last-modified: Tue, 12 Nov 1996 20:28:46 GMT

Blair MacIntyre's Home Page





Blair MacIntyre



Graduate Student,

Graphics and User Interfaces Lab
,

CS Department
,

Columbia University




Columbia Road Runners Club
I'm also helping out with the Columbia Road Runners Club.  If you want to
check out what we are up to, go to our
home page
.

Personal Information



How to Reach Me


Papers



Doctoral Research:
Interaction and Information Presentation in Augemented Reality
My research is done within the context of the Computer Graphics Lab
Research in Augmented Reality
.

Augmented reality is a form of virtual reality that uses see-through
displays to enhance the world will computer generated material. When
combined with more traditional palm, tablet and wall sized displays, a
powerful augmented computing environment emerges in which two and
three dimensional information can be presented to a user
simultaneously on a combination of two and three dimensional
displays. This gives us a wider variety of interaction techniques
and ways of organizing information. The simple techniques used for
window management in two dimensional graphical user interfaces, that
rely on the user to manual arrange windows, will not extend well into
this environment. More powerful, automated environment management
techniques are required. We are investigating one approach to solving
this problem, using a combination of expert system and
constraint-based techniques.
We are building a testbed (
COTERIE
) for fast prototyping of distributed virtual
environment systems that supports multiple simultaneous users
interacting in environments with many heterogenous displays and input
devices. The testbed is designed around a multi-threaded, modular,
object oriented programming model and supports fully transparent
distributed communications via both client-server and fully replicated
distributed objects. By building applications as groups of cooperating
threads, a single programming model can be used for both single and
multiprocess programs. Both interpretted (
Obliq
) and compiled
(
Modula-3
)
languages are simultaneously available to the application programmer.
An important component of this testbed is a high-level, distribted
graphics library. By making the library objects directly
distributable, programmers operate on the scene graphs directly,
allowing complex distributed graphical applications to be created in a
straightforward manner.
Finaly, we are building a number of applications using this testbed and
environment management to both demonstrate their utility and point
the way towards future research.


Talks


Here
are the slides from a short,
informal talk I gave during our PhD student Informal Talks series
this summer.
Here
are the slides from a
the talk I gave at UIST'96.



The 3D Hardware accelerator FAQ Part 1
and
Part 2


(Last updated: Tue Mar 19 19:23:27 EST 1996)

This is the FAQ I'm maintaining of 3D accelerators for PCs.  My particular
interest is in finding PCI-based cards that can drive stereo, see-through
head-mounted displays (of the sort I'm modelling at the top of this page).
For now, the FAQ is slanted in that direction, but that will change.


MISC


Some mirrors of the Info-Mac Archives



My Netscape bookmarks



Webmaker Docs

A
video camera
in our lab.  Probably looking at
an NT screensaver right now.  Eventually, this will be a fully interactive augmented reality application, that you will be able to control over the net.  Check back in early July.


Proselytization
I'm using Modula-3 for my research right now, because I believe it's
the best language that I have available on all the architectures I
need to use.  For more information, take a look at the online
documentation.  I'm also using Obliq, an interpretted language built
on top of Modula-3.




Includes the language definition, pointers to implementations, a FAQ
and other useful information.




Obliq is a lexically-scoped untyped language that supports distributed
object-oriented computation. An Obliq computation may involve multiple
threads of control within an address space, multiple address spaces
on a machine, heterogeneous machines over a local network, and multiple
networks over the Internet. Objects are local to a site, while computation
can roam over the network. The distributed computation mechanism
is based on Modula-3 Network Objects.






bm@cs.columbia.edu



