Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 21:56:47 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Sun, 14 Apr 1996 23:15:02 GMT
Content-length: 7406


Tom Acree





Tom Acree

WELCOME TO MY PERSONAL WEB PAGE!
I am a computer science grad student here at
Bowling Green State University
.  This diversion has been as interesting attempt at avoiding the real world at all costs.
As you can see in the picture above, I spend a lot of time in my office on (or in) my computer.
Here is a view
from my office window on the 5'th floor of the administration building.
Here is the view
from my computer screen.

Here is some stuff you'll find here


Paper for STC Conference in Seattle

Here is the paper that my fellow colleagues and I produced for our  presentation at the
43RD Annual Conference in Seattle
.  The paper is on Developing and Managing World Wide Web sites, and will be published in the conference proceedings.  The conference is in May, and if you are going, be sure to check us out!

Essential Information

If you don't know me, this is sort of a personal biography. Even if you do know me, you may be shocked at what you find here.

My Online Resume

Hire me!  I graduate in May, 1996.  My resume has the following sections:

Professional Experience

Education

Computer Development Skills

Projects and Roles

Conference and Training Experience

Personal Information

References


Projects

Just some things I do to pass the time.

Interests

In case my personal biography wasn't enough, here's me blathering more about myself.

Photo-album

Here are some pictures of my friends and family.  These were selected to correspond to my MCI long distance plan.

Bookmarks

Here is my evergrowing list.  Maybe you'll find something here you like.

Tom and Harry's Squash Results

This is link is the running record between me and my friend and fellow CS Grad. student
Harry Feiel
.  Right now, the score is tied at 4 games each, and 1 match apiece.  I am sure that Harry would have some interesting statistics for you on these matches, but he can put them on
his web page
.



Projects
Currently I am working as one of the honorary
BGSU Web Webmasters
.  Some of the projects I've completed during this project include creating a
Tour of BGSU
, the
BGSU Web Styleguide
, the
BGSU Explorer
, and the
BGSU Web Page Template Composer
.  I also assisted in the redesign of the
BGSU Web
.
My current project and daily tasks involve performing group and one to one training sessions to assist departments and offices in developing their own web pages, serving on the
BGSU W3 Task Force
, maintaining the Pagemaster Listprocessor, and assisting the other Webmasters with their duties.  I am also working on looking at some new statistical packages, and search tools for use by departments and ourselves.
As a
BGSU Computer Science
Graduate student, I am working with my colleague
Dean Zeller
on designing a Tennis Tournament monitoring application for USTA Tournaments.  We are using
Borland Delphi
to create this application, and are currently in the process of developing the interface.  Come back in January for some screen captures of what our interface will look like.
To see information on some of the other projects I've done, see the
Projects
section of my online
resume
.

Interests
I enjoy playing piano; would you believe I began college as a piano performance major at
Heidelberg College
in Tiffin, Ohio?!  This only lasted a semester though.  You have to be pretty damned good to be a performance major these days.  I'd have starved by now.  When I get the time, I still enjoy playing though.
I have often been asked (usually by guitar players) to list my musical influences.  This is considered a very cool thing to do; and actually, I'm not even sure you are allowed to learn to play an instrument these days unless you have a good list of influences.  I unfortunately learned to play
before
I had a good list (probably why I never made it as a performer), but have managed to come up with some now.  Hopefully, its not too late.  They are as follows:


The prolific and ingenius Sister Pat Neckel.
Sister Thomas, she started me out, and my fingers have never forgot.  OUCH!
Sister Marie Reinhart, the teacher I had the longest, she makes Job (you know the prophet)  look like a nervous basket case.
Professor Catherine Thiedt, The greatest organ player I've ever seen in my life.
Last but not least, my high school band teacher Bill Bleyle, the percussion wizard.
I also love tennis and play every chance I can get;  In fact, I think about it nearly every waking moment.  I'm thinking about it right now.  Mmmmmm 40-love.  If you like tennis too, then you may be interested in the
1995 Professional Men's tennis results
listed by tournament.  And look, here is the
1996 Professional Men's tennis schedule
.
Other things include reading, playing other racquet sports, and of course, playing with computers.

Help Create-a-Limerick
Currently nothing here, but check back.  This is going to be a place where we can all collaborate on creating limericks.

More To Come, Stop Back Again...
Hey, I'm just getting started; I hope to find time to put some more interesting things up as time and life allows.

96-2-14/
tacree@bgnet.bgsu.edu



