Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 21:56:26 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.1
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 26 Sep 1996 22:24:18 GMT
Content-length: 4993
Eric Hetherington's Homepage



Welcome to Tex's Homepage

Otherwise known as Eric Hetherington



Welcome to Happy-Camperville --- My insignificant domain on the VAST WEB OF LIFE
Well this is pretty much it to this point.  If you wish, drop me a line at the following, as I'm always reading my e-mail.

Eric Hetherington






Places that I, being a total addict, with pretty much nothing else to do but fail out of Grad School, spend most of my non-e-mail-sending-time at.  These sites are primarily dedicated to my collecting habits.  Other cool sites are listed below.
If you have found the pictures and colors and backgrounds to your liking and would like to learn more, check out
Joe Burn's Page
and he will guide you to excellence.




The Starting Line-Up Page
---by Dave, there is no other site like it for SLU information!
Beckett Online

Ernie White
----the guy who publishes White's Guide .... with some interesting SLU info.
Newsgroup-Rec.Toys.Misc.

Raving Toy Maniac Page

Action Figure Times

Newsgroup-Rec.collecting.sport.basketball

Newsgroup-Rec.collecting.sport.football

Newsgroup-Rec.collecting.sport.baseball

Newsgroup-Rec.collecting.sport.hockey





My SLU Collection
---On this page I have listed what I have available for trade and what I am looking for currently.  If you are interested in something drop me an e-mail and I'll get back to you.



In a great attemp not to fill the page with nothing but toys and humor I have turned those  items into other pages and linked them so as to avoid so much clutter and confusion on a single page.

Cartoons and Comics and Such
-- a few picts and links to Calvin, The RugRats, Pooh, etc.



As promissed, other neat places depending on what it is you want to find.

Search.Com
----This is a solid beginning search engine.  It is the best place to start and provides access to other search engines, etc.  It uses various search tools to search Web Pages, Usenet, etc.   ***May have problems with freeze ups if browser not advanced enough.
Starting Point
-- another good choice for a "starting" location.  Should function with all browsers.
USA Today
---in my opinion the best sports pages in the world.
CNN Headline News
--- a whole days news in 30 minutes.  (well, about 5 via the Web Page)
ESPN
---the sportszone.  Is there anything better than SportsCenter for the sports fanatic?

AT&T Research
--- all kinds of great things to play with.  And yes, one day I will work on the Hill.  (Insider joke)
One last location, for those of us who finally watched our team win a world series.  Here is a great starting location for more Braves info than you could ever really want.
Go Braves
--- Let's win another one!










Disclaimer -- all pictures of copyrighted material are to to be regarded as samples of that material to encourage you to watch, read, and/or buy officially licienced products from proper distributors.



All pages composed by this author were last updated on 5/10/96.


