Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 03:37:17 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.1
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Monday, 12-Aug-96 15:42:53 GMT


Angelika's Homepage



Welcome to Angelika's Homepage


WARNING!!! THIS HOMEPAGE IS STILL UNDER CONSTRUCTION



Originally I am from
Vaihingen/Enz,
Germany
. I spent my undergraduate years in Tallahassee, Florida
and Chadron, Nebraska. In August 1995 after my graduation I moved to Las
Cruces to start graduate school. After my graduation here I want to move
back to Germany and start working or get into a doctoral program in
computer architecture. While I was back in Germany this summer I
visited the Computer Science department of the Friedrich Schiller Universitaet in Jena. Check out their
Institute for Computer
Architecture and Communication
. This site is in German only.


People often ask me why I actually
went to the US to attend college. I really don't have a logical
explanation for this, I just know that it has been a dream of mine
since I was a little child. When I was four years old I told my mother
that one day I would live in the US for a while. So, here I am.


I really like cats a lot. I have two at home. Do you want to see some
pictures of my two
monsters
(link does
not exist yet)? The larger one of the two is called Dim Sum. He is the
older one and has been with me for about three years.
The smaller one - Sogo - is his best friend. She is about eighteen
months old and the wild one of the two. Always ready for a
chase down the hall or other games, she is also the one who has enough
energy at 4 am to wake me up and demand breakfast.
Besides playing with my cats, I like reading a lot, I am an active
member of Amnesty International and enjoy dancing or just hanging out
with friends.


My best friend in the world is
Rob Thomas
. We became
friends during my undergrad year at FAMU. Since then he's been by my
side through thick and thin.


To read my resume (German version only so far) click
here
.
This summer I was an intern at the
German Cancer Research Institute
in
Heidelberg working as a C programmer at their teleradiology system
called
Medicus-2
.Check
out their hompages!! They are doing a lot of
interesting work there. Also here are the
homepages
of the people I
had the pleasure of working with.


Here are some internet sites that I use quite frequently.
Amnesty International Homepage

The National Neurofibromatosis Foundation

University of Stuttgart
This is a university in my home state

University of Jena


Florida A and M University
This
is the university where I did part of my undergraduate work

Chadron State College
This is the
college where I finished my undergraduate degree

The Library of Congress

Women and Computer Science

German Research Institute for AI

Der Spiegel
A German political magazine

Telegraph

Die Wochenpost
German
newspaper from an East German point-of-view

Germany Live
Magazine

Der Focus
A weekly political
magazine in German


Please let me know what you think.
Angelika, aerb@cs.nmsu.edu
Last updated April 22, 1996

