Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 23:05:07 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 08:33:19 GMT
Content-length: 9476



Rimbo, aka Jimmy Rimmer





Jimmy Rimmer, aka Rimbo



Updated last: 11/21/96


I Fear the
Denver
Broncos
.

More appropriately, I fear
John
Elway
.

Well, well, well...How about those Longhorns? It would appear that Mackovic,
formerly known as the "Iceman," has stepped up and decided to
lead the team with a little bit of emotion. Maybe we DO have a chance to
get slaughtered by either Colorado or Nebraska in the Big 12 championship...

There are three sections to this page: My Undergraduate
Thesis
,
a few sound
Modules
I've written, and a list of
links
through which I can share some of my interests.



My Undergraduate Thesis:

"A Knowledge-Based Approach for Generating Transitions Between
Musical Themes by Computer in Real Time"
or something like that

Basically, it's an attempt to take two musical themes, and have the
computer generate a musical transition between them.

I'm fortunate that I had the chance to make all my mistakes in undergraduate
school...I think I'll get my chance to do a thesis correctly now that I'm
a Ph.D. student at UCSD. There are a few major flaws with this, and I think
I ought to let y'all know what they are before you dive in and download
these two files.


The paper is almost totally lacking proper research. Honestly, I tried
to find similar works, but could not find them. On the other hand, I could
have looked harder for books on chord theory and come up with a good generalized
list of rules instead of the ones I invented in the last minute.

Also, along with the lack of research, the paper has a very poorly
designed "related works" section. I had very little idea what
was expected of me because I put this part off until the last nanosecond.

The two parts above give the paper sort of a "Lone Ranger"
type of feel, which was not my intention at all. In fact, I owe quite a
lot to the Renaissance guys (Tran and Daredevil) for making the PMODE/W
header the executable uses, and to MikMak of Hardcode for the MikMod routines
I used.

Finally, as you'll probably read, I only got 2/3 of the way done. There's
simply no excuse for that.


So, anyway, here it is.

A zipped PostScript
version of the actual paper.

Source
code, sample song, and DOS executable, zipped.

The source code compiles just fine with PMODE/W and Watcom C/C++ 10.6
given the included makefile. The executable requires the sample song to
be in the same directory with it, and also requires a soundcard. Most soundcards
work--all soundcards that MikMod supports, this supports, including the
Gravis UltraSound, SoundBlaster 16, and a half dozen others.

My tracked music.

Here are some songs I've done in (close to) the order I did them...all
are in either S3M or XM format.

If you don't already have a player for these, download:
Cubic
Player
if you normally use DOS,
Mod4Win
(Shareware) if you use Windows 95, or if you happen to be a Linux user,
I recommend
MikMod
2.09
b
.


I am in Considerable
Pain.

Funk.
My first tracked tune ever. Put me in the ranks
of the not-so-elite "Animaniacs trackers' club" along with Luv
Kohli and Raymond Singing Wolf (or Kitsune, or Raymond Blackwolf, or whatever
name he's going by nowadays).

Three Minutes
Past Midnight.

Industrial.
Ahhh, such a marvelous waste of channels!
This has some of the better samples of the lot. I still like it, even after
all of these years....

The Bird, The
Fountain, and the Temple.

Demo-Music.
This was originally an
FM S3M, but I converted it to an XM. (It sounded better as an FM tune--tragically,
I lost the original.)

Seizure.

Industrial.
My first pHluid release. I still am not too fond of
this one, but there are a shockingly great number of people who really
love this song. You decide.

Pain II.

Dance.
The song accused of sounding like "My Sharona."
It was actually inspired by "Gimme some lovin'" by Steve Winwood's
old band (I forget their name.)

Quartet.

Classical.
A chiptune. I like the oboe patch for the GUS--you get
12 samples for the price of 9k.

Chiptune.

Chip.
Got second place in one of the original 20-minute chiptune
compos.

The Bells
of Zhakanh.

Ambient/Pop.
This is the first song I've tracked
to come close to the quality of my MIDI work. Some people don't like the
dissonant harmonies in this one. I think this one rocks all of the rest,
personally.

Insanity.

Industrial/Art-Music.
This song was the last song I released on
a pHluid music pack. I didn't like it at first, because it was hastily
completed; however, I'm beginning to realize that it takes my music in
a direction I'd really like to go. When listening to it, imagine someone
who has flipped out going from mood to mood to unsanitary mood...

3 Themes.

No style.
The example song from my thesis, but with transitions
written by me. Designed for scientific reasons, not aesthetics. Hornet
gave this song a rating of *+, which is their way of saying "Why did
you even bother?"

Hyperactif.

Dance/Acid.
A re-worked version of my NAID multichannel music competition
entry. It's a lot better now than what I released to the compo. It still
sucks.


The three songs which most people seem to like of these are Seizure,
Pain II, and Insanity. If you're limited in time and space, you probably
can't go very wrong with those three. My personal favorite is The Bells
of Zhakanh.

And more stuff to come...
A few fav'rite links.

The Lurker's
Guide to Babylon 5.

"What,
Babylon 5?!?!?!?
Why should I watch Babylon 5? Isn't
it just a Star Trek ripoff?" No, and here's why: It's a
five-year
story,
with rich detail. Fortunately, for those of us who are truly
addicted, the show won't be over after five years--there will be a spinoff
series carried by TNT.

The #trax homepage.
#trax can be
found on the server
irc.demoscene.org
.

The Ensoniq VFX home
page.

The Ultimate Longhorn Site.
For
people, like me, who are homesick Longhorns.


To contact me, write to
rimbo@cs.ucsd.edu
.

Back to the
CS Department
Homepage
.

The CS department at the University of California
at San Diego, UCSD, the UC system, the State of California, the United
States of America, and pretty much all of humanity has no responsibility
for this page or my actions. So if you want to sue somebody about something
I've said, you're going to have to sue
my
poor ass. You will get
satisfaction, but I'm afraid that I'm quite short on money.



