Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:50:35 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4293
Last-modified: Fri, 26 Apr 1996 21:51:42 GMT
Steve Popovich

Steve Popovich
I'm a Ph.D. candidate in the
Programming Systems Lab
(PSL)
of the
Department of
Computer Science
at
Columbia
University
.  I'm currently finishing up my thesis, the title of
which is
Rule-Based Process Servers for Software Development
Environments
.  I should be defending some time around July
1996.
I am currently searching for teaching, research or development
employment in the Central Illinois area.  For anyone with jobs
available who may be browsing this page, my
resume
is available for your perusal.  (I
may even put it into HTML format to make it easier to view, one of
these days.)  My research experience is primarily in two areas:


Software process
and process-based environments; the process
server approach helps to make my work applicable also to
business-oriented workflow specifications and workflow environments.
The
Workflow Management
Coalition
is developing a workflow specification standard
involving workflow engines analogous to software process servers.

Parallel and distributed programming
, particularly in the area
of object-based concurrent programming languages.
Some of my
publications
in the
areas of software process, software development environments and
object-based concurrent programming are available for FTP through this
home page.
I also have worked, previous to my entering graduate school, on the
development of a commercial expert system shell, and an authoring
system for multi-media computer-aided instruction courseware.
The digitized picture of myself that appears here, as seems to be the
custom on the net, is not only black and white, but truly awfully
distorted; it was taken by one of those cheap little video cameras
that you can get for a Sun workstation.  The result is sort of a
"fisheye lens" effect.  I'd like to get a better one actually scanned
to put up, but that's a very low priority right now.
My interests outside of CS (with which I fill my copious spare time :-)
include:


Karate
-- I hold the rank of
shodan
, or first degree black belt,
in JKA Shotokan Karate.

Martial
arts
in general.
Amateur radio -- I hold an Extra-class license as WB3I, and am a
member of the
Columbia University Amateur Radio Club (CUARC)
, although I haven't
been very active lately, because of a lack of spare time, due to that
thesis I mentioned earlier.
About the only activity that I
have
been able to keep up is as
a Volunteer Examiner for the licensing examinations that CUARC holds
monthly, generally on the third Monday of the month.  If you're in or
near upper Manhattan and looking for a licensing examination, contact
our Team Liaison,
Alan
Crosswell
, at
alan@columbia.edu
.
If I seem to be rambling here, well, that's just the way I write.
Maybe it's because of my
INFP
personality type.  That's a Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) type
designation, a very rough (with only 16 types to describe the vast
range of human personality, it would
have
to be rough!)
classification system that nevertheless seems to have its
applications.  A
summary
of
Myers-Briggs typology (due to Jon Noring, not me!  I don't know that
much about it!) is available for FTP.  In addition to explaining those
cryptic letters, it provides some background information and
references for further reading, and also tells you where to find a
test, if you're interested in finding out what your type might be.

I can be reached by e-mail at:
popovich@cs.columbia.edu


