Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:55:31 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.0
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 4055
Last-modified: Thu, 29 Aug 1996 19:03:26 GMT

Carlos Home Page.


Carlos WWW Home Page



Last modified 01/02/96



This page is under
construction.


E-mail:

czamora@cs.mcgill.ca

Office:

McENG 205N

Office Phone:
(514) 398-7085 ext 5930

Office FAX:

(514) 398-3883


Hi there...!!! welcome my WWW page. Finally I decided to construct it.
Well... What could I say about me...? I am a mexican student at this School,
I am trying to learn almost everything from everywhere about anything
while my studies here at McGill, before my scholarship finishes.
I decided to construct this page mainly for fun, but I will try to include
some stuff about the formal job I am doing.
My
alma mater
is
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico (UNAM),
specifically, I
studied at
Instituto de Matematicas
(of course, every place inside UNAM). This is
almost, up to now, my academic history...
Here, at McGill, I am studying with Prof. Denis Therien. We are trying to
work on Complexity Theory; specifically on relationships among boolean circuits
complexity, algebra and logic. Right now, I work on a problem about
characterizing all
NEUTRAL
languages in the circuit complexity class
defined by circuits of polynomial size and  constant depth. This result
implies some very strong and deep results in complexity of boolean circuits
(like
PARITY
is not in
AC0).
As a fellow from UNAM (my home university) I need to have a supervisor, mine
is
Dr Sergio Rajsbaum
,
he has been in a long sabatical year at the MIT Laboratry for
Computer Science. If you are interested in Distributed Computing,
I would strongly recommend you to visit his home page.
I will be attending from february the 25th to march the 2nd to the
McGill-Montreal Invitational Workshop on Complexity Theory,
this
event will be held at the McGill University's Bellairs Research Institute
in Barbados. The core of the talks will be given by
Prof Sanjeev Arora
from the
Computer
Science Department
at Princeton University. If you are interested to
know about the Workshop's adacemic program
Click here!
There are many nice things to go to Barbados, one of them is that I will
be away from the Montreal's very, very, very, cold weather...
As you may have noticed, I am a Simpsons TV show fan. If you don't watch
the Simpsons, you're missing one of the
best
programs in television.
Here there are some links that I have found interesting about it.

The Who Shot Mr. Burns? homepage.







The ORIGINAL
Krusty the Clown Homepage



The Simpsons Archive

The Simpsons Newsgroup


Back to McGill Computer Science School.






