Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 23:05:01 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 27 Sep 1996 09:08:05 GMT
Content-length: 2701
Chris Rosin's Homepage


Chris Rosin


UCSD CSE 0114
La Jolla, CA  92093-0114
Office: 5402 AP&M
E-Mail: crosin@cs.ucsd.edu


Interests

Genetic algorithms, coevolution, game learning, computational learning theory,
neural networks, cellular automata, computational biology.

Current Research

For many problems, performance of candidate solutions needs to be measured
on a suite of test cases.  The choice of test cases can be an important factor
in the quality of solutions found.
Adversarial problems
are those for which
it is possible to search for good test cases as well as good solutions.
Examples include games (strategies must be tested against strong opponents),
controller design (test against difficult plants), and grammar induction
(test on strings that reveal unusual features of the language).  I am
exploring theoretical aspects of adversarial problems, and heuristic methods
for solving them.

Papers


Technical Report #CS96-491:
"New methods for Competitive Coevolution"
,
Christopher D. Rosin and Richard K. Belew.
ICGA 95 paper (submitted version): Two new methods are used to improve the
performance of competitive co-evolution on several games, including Go.
"Methods
for Competitive Co-evolution: Finding
Opponents Worth Beating"
, Christopher D. Rosin and Richard
K. Belew.  Final version in
Proceedings of the Sixth International
Conference on Genetic Algorithms
. L.J. Eshelman, editor.
COLT 96 paper (submitted version): A computational learning theoretic
model of game learning is described, and sufficient conditions are given
for polynomial-time learnability of perfect strategies.
"A Competitive Approach to Game Learning"
, Christopher
D. Rosin and Richard K. Belew.  Final version in
Proceedings of the Ninth
Annual ACM Conference on Computational Learning Theory
.
An older unpublished extended abstract on
Competitive Learning
, a theoretical model of learning
in a competitive environment.
E. Niebur, C. Koch, and C. Rosin.  "An oscillation-based model for the
neuronal basis of attention."
Vision Research
33:18 (1993).

Links



Machine
Learning in Games


Live Alife Page


Computer Go

Whozis?


