Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 16:25:10 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.5
Content-type: text/html


Diana Popova's Home Page

Diana Popova
's Home Page


Welcome to Diana Popova's home page.
If you got here by another route, then you may want to use
the University of Victoria's
information server
as starting point for local exploration.



Research Interests


Systems Engineering
Networks (protocols)
Architecture(verification of systems)
Systems Software (software engineering)



Research Topic
Building a translator from CSP language to C++.



Description of Research
One of the useful formalisms for designing concurrent real-time systems is the process algebra called CSP, or Communicating Sequential Processes.  CSP statements can be used to model a system's control and data flow in an intuitive  way.  These statements can be executed and debugged until it is clear that the desired behaviour has been accurately captured.  Moreover, CSP is an algebra with precise rules, so it is possible to prove certain properties (such as the absense of deadlocks) of the design.  The task of the translator is to automatically produce compilable code from CSP statements.  If the CSP statements have been properly verified, then such code can have the advantage of being  "correct by construction".  This goal can be accomplished by devising a technique for translating from CSP to C++. More details can be seen in the
Thesis Outline
page.


Contact Information
Name:           Diana Popova
University:     University of Victoria
Department:     Computer Science
Address:        104 -- 3861 Finnerty Road, Victoria, BC V8N 6K8
Telephone:      604-472-2629
Fax:            604-472-2629
E-mail:         dpopova@sanjuan.uvic.ca



Career Interests and Goals
Computer Systems Administration, Software Development


Skills
Computer programmer in C, C++; Electronics engineer; Technical translator from Russian.



Work Experience
Jan 92 - Nov 93    Electronics Development Engineer, SIFS, Moscow, Russia
Jan 89 - Dec 91    Electronics Adjustment Engineer, LITE, Moscow, USSR
Nov 76 - Dec 88   Design Engineer, ZEW, Moscow Region, USSR





