Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 03:52:26 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3763
Last-modified: Fri, 05 Apr 1996 22:07:34 GMT


MY Home



Don't Panic, you are at the RIGHT place!


It's not NJ shore. It's
my
home at
Rutgers






(:ALL YOU WANNA KNOW ABOUT ME:)

My first friends in the US

Interesting people I met in the US
My favorite sports
How I keep in touch with the rest of the world


My favorite picture




Send me your comments


About me and what I do here

Born in
India
in the post-indepedence era, I spent most of my younger days in Madurai, the temple city, in the state of
Tamil Nadu
. The country is famous for its
historic
values. If you plan to visit, here's a
guide
to plan your trip. And don't forget to travel by
Indian Railways
. They are the oldest and the best railways in the world.
After graduating in Production Engineering from Regional Engineering College, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, South India and working for an Engineering Company in Bombay, the financial capital of India, I decided to go back to school for graduate study. So, I flew to this great land of oppurtunity, the United States of America, to further enhance my knowledge and skills.
That was 4 years ago. My present status: still in school at Rutgers working towards my Masters in Computer Science.
So, what did I achieve in four years, then? A Masters in Industrial and Systems Engineering from this same University in Oct'94 (Here's the
proof
of my graduation). Isn't that enough?


My first friends in the US

Being new to this country with a totally different culture it was really hard to make any friends. It was a year later when I met
Mr. Brian Hall and Ms. Catherine Todd Boyles
, my first good friends at Rutgers.
Brian is with the Sociology department. He is a veteran at Rutgers, where he did his undergraduate and graduate degrees and is now in his doctoral program. He (like me!) never wants to leave school. Spends so much time helping other people that he hardly gets time to work on his doctoral program. Enjoys teaching and presently teaches in the English department. He is a very good tour guide and showed me around
Philadelphia
and New York City. Thanks Brian!
Cathy graduated in May'95. She hails from Pittsburgh, the home of the famous Hindu temple. She is very interested in foreign languages. Though not a German, she graduated with a Masters from the German department at Rutgers and specialized in translation. Her interests include studying languages, poetry, reading, sewing and of late, playing tennis. She is all excited about her new full-time job as a translator at
Siemens
and her upcoming marriage to Mark Klingler.  Mark is a great artist at
Carnegie Museum
. Good Luck, Cathy!

