Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:51:40 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.5
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3446
Last-modified: Thu, 14 Nov 1996 17:52:32 GMT


Jack Muramatsu





Area:
CORPS

Advisor:
Mark S. Ackerman

Electronic Mail:

jmuramat@ics.uci.edu


Office: ICS 2 #264
Office Phone: (714) 824-5086


Research Interests
I'm interested in Computer-Mediated Communication (CMC),
Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) and
Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW).
Publications

Pazzani, Michael, Muramatsu, Jack and Billsus, Daniel. "SysKill and Webert :
Identifying Interesting Web Sites". Proceedings of the  National Conference on
Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-96), August 1996, pp 54 - 61.
Computing  Skills / Interests
I'm a semi-competent
Perl
programmer and also know just enough  about Web
servers and CGI scripts  to get myself into trouble.  I've got a fair amount ofexperience with writing regular expression  for Web/Internet related
applications.
If you're looking for a quick example of what can be done
with Perl in terms of the Web and HTML take a look at the HTMLized versions
of the
Machine Learning
List Archives
.  The HTML versions you find on that archive were automaticallly created on-the-fly from the formatted ascii digests without any additional
human effort - completely seamless.  I should say although I'm happy with
the program, the strict format already in place for the ML digest made the job
much
easier.

Colleagues
There are some great people here in the department and I've been lucky enough
to meet a few. Grad school can be a struggle at times - these people have
made the experience enjoyable and productive for me.

David McDonald
is my officemate, fellow group member, and co-conspirator ;-). He's also a great programmer - I'm always trying to learn a thing or two or three from him.
Wayne Lutters
is also in our group and is currently studying
dial-up electronic bulletin boards.

Leysia Palen
is a fellow
UCSD CogSci Grad and a great person to be around. She always manages to cut
to the heart of the matter in a humorous way. Her current work focuses on the adoption and use of electronic calendering systems.  Finally,
Shilpa Shukla
is always in high spirits and helps
me to keep things in perspective - no matter how stressful things get.  She's
interested in computer-support for collaborative learning (CSCL).
Other Interests


I'm an avid
volleyball
fan / player.


Academic History


Graduated with a B.S. degree in
Cognitive Science
from
UC San Diego
- June '94
Graduated from Palisades High School (Pacific Palisades, CA) - June '89

Last Modified : November 3rd, 1996


Department of Information and Computer Science,
University of California, Irvine CA 92717-3425



