Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 20:20:24 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 11407
Last-modified: Sun, 24 Nov 1996 22:02:09 GMT

Alejandro (ALEX) Jaimes' Home Page

Alejandro (ALEX) Jaimes






"Una ragazza e sempre un mistero: non c'e che fidarsi al suo viso e all'ispirazione del proprio cuore."
- E.De Amicis


My background
In 1994 and after a lot of traveling I finally got my degree in
Computing Systems Engineering (English link)
at
Universidad de los Andes
in Santafe de Bogota -
Colombia
(South America).
As a member of the
DFAC (Computer Aided Manufacturing and Design) Research Group
at Universidad de los Andes I Worked for a year as Research Assistant developing a software library for Image Processing and Computer Vision.
By the way, the picture above is of my great grandfather (astonishing resemblance, see my picture below) back in 1860. Click
here
to see the full photo of him and his beautiful wife.
I discovered this photograph last year in a box in the attic of my father's house. I used some image processing techniques to repair it.

Other activities
In 1993 I volunteered as a Park Ranger in the Katios National Park for two months.  The park is located in an area known as the Darien Gap (since it is very dense tropical rainforest) in Colombia near the Panama border.
It is said to be the most eco-diverse system in the world; this park is home to the only bear species and about 40% of all the bird species in South America.  Access to the park is only by boat up the Atrato River (highest water volume in the world). The closest town to the park is 2 hours away.
Since 1990 and until 1995 I participated in activities of the Rotaract Bogota-Suba club in Bogota, Colombia.  I also formed part of a team that visited Virginia thru
Rotary
's Group Study Exchange program.
From 1990 to 1995 I worked part time as an English teacher in Colombia.
Last year a friend in Colombia took me
paragliding
off a mountain 1,500 feet high.  He went first and of course, hit a tree.  From what he's told me, he usually does when he tries to impress his friends.  I had a nice flight though and can't wait to do it again.  If you share this interest and are in the NY area e-mail me!
I enjoy photography; specially travel photography.  In the last five years I have traveled as much as possible and collected photographs from 17 countries.  I hope to make that collection grow soon!
I very much like beer but had no idea there was a pub in Arizona bearing my last name! I should definitely one day visit
Jaimes
.
I am also a
Green Tortoise
alumni.
This summer I worked at
AT&T Laboratories
in Holmdel, NJ in the Network Managment Interfaces Group.

Activities at Columbia University


(Foot + Rat!)
I am a Master of Science in Computer Science student.  I have many interests, but mainly: Computer Vision, Image Processing, Visual Information Systems,
3D Computer Graphics
, Graphical User Interfaces and Multimedia.

Present work
I am working for
Prof. Shih-Fu Chang
at the
Center for Telecommunications Research.
My work is in Content Based Visual Query (using Computer Vision/Image Processing techniques for searching and indexing image and video databases based on the content of the images in conjunction with textual descriptions). I am particularly interested in allowing the queries to be performed with spatial specifications, use of shape and combination of different features such as color and texture.
My interests are broad, but I am focusing in three areas:

Finding ways to automatically categorize images based on their content (portraits, landscapes, etc.).
Sketch/shape based retrieval using spatial restricitions.
Digital Libraries (using images to illustrate text and other issues).
Information on the lab's current projects (demos and publications) can be found at the
Advent
page of the Image and Advanced Television Laboratory.

Previous work
In the
Robotics Group
I worked on the Virtual Vision Lab project.
I developed the Visual Tacking Module (C++/Motif/X-Vision) and incorporated it into the tutorial.  The tracking module allows the user to select objects in a video sequence and tracks them as they move during the sequence.
In the
Graphics Group,
last year I did some work on an Stk interface for
n-Vision
(3D utility for viewing multi-variate data). I also worked on a project involving
Augmented Reality
(camera calibration and Pan Tilt Unit-PTU programming in
Modula-3
) where a pair of
3D Virtual IO glasses
are mounted on a camera. Soon, users will be allowed users to move the camera by issuing commands over the WWW (see graphics homepage).


Special Interests





I enjoy all types of adventure sports but I particularly do a lot of hiking (when there's time).  I have hiked many parts of Colombia, and have also done some hiking in the New York area with the
Sierra Club
, the
Columbia University Hiking Club
and the
Appalachian Mountain Club
.
I have not done much photography lately but I do every time I get a chance.  I do mostly travel photography in slide and black and white film.
Recently, I have taken up Racquetball and hope to continue. Check out the
AARA Official Rules
and the
International Racquetball Tour homepage.

I LOVE LUCY
(Honey I'm home!!!)


Interesting Facts About Colombia (the country!)
It's obvious there are lots of problems, and everybody mostly knows Colombia for it's coffee and... but it's much more than that.
The first thing you should remember about Colombia is that it is COLOMBIA and not COLUMBIA (most people write it with a U, which is wrong!).
Climate: Colombia does not have any seasons.  Temperature varies according to altitud (lowest: sea level, highest: about 18,000 ft).
Ethnic divisions:  mestizo 58%, white 20%, mulatto 14%, black 4%, mixed black-Indian 3%, Indian 1%
Geography:  Colombia is rich in geographical diversity.  It has shores on the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, part of the Amazon, deserts, tropical rainforest, snow capped volcanos and three mountain ranges.
Largest city: Bogota (Population: estimated at about 6 million; altitud: almost 6,000 feet; year-round temperature: ranges from 40 Farenheit (nights) to about 65 Farenheit (days))(These are not exact figures!)
Now, if you'd like to know more about Colombia than what you see in the news or movies (all of the movies I have seen which mention Colombia were filmed somewhere in Mexico right accross the border- not to mention t.v. series!), take a look at the following links.

WWW links on Colombia
Links in Colombia:

El Tiempo:
Colombia's main newspaper is on line (Spanish).  Updated daily.

WWW Colombia index:
This page contains a list of links in English and Spanish to information regarding Colombia.

Univesidad del Valle:
Basic data in English and Spanish, along with some photographs.

Mi Colombia!
Set of photographs of different regios.  These are very good.
Other links in the US (All in English):

Univesity of Illinois at Springfield:
Contains general information, history, literature, government and even some music.

Colorado State University:
General information, also contains some food recipes; try Arequipe and Ajaico- mail me if you succeed!

Bradley State University:
Some general information and a very interesting "description of colombian character and attitud".

Lonely Planet:
Here you'll find some nice photographs and a travel guide (I've used it- it's outstanding and there's a new edition.).

TravNet:
Very extensive information on Colombia including contacts, vacation packages, etc. I highly recomend this one.

CIA fact book on Colombia:
This is the place to go if you want the hard-facts.  It's also a short introduction (no photographs, of course). You will see, however, a map of Colombia with the major cities.


More Links

Computer parts:
Here you'll be able to order and get prices on everything.

Search.com:
Full set of search engines. This is really worth checking out!


New York City Info

Total NYC

Voice

Timeout


Columbia

Columbia University

Computer Science Department.

Columbia Automated Vision Environment.

Center for Telecommunications Research.

Image and Advanced Television Laboratory.

Electrical Engineering Department.

Questions or comments? Send me e-mail by clicking here:

ajaimes@cs.columbia.edu


