Date: Tuesday, 26-Nov-96 03:05:47 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.1
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Monday, 04-Nov-96 16:21:12 GMT


Rob's Home Page













Rob Sinclair's Homepage



NOTE:
Your browser does not support display frames.  Click on one of the
following links to download either
Netscape
or

Best Experienced with

Click Here to Start

-->













If you were using a Java-enabled browser, you would see an animated
LED sign right here.



All About Me (Hey ... it
is MY home page)
I am a young strapping graduate student in the
Computer Science Department
here
at
New Mexico State University
.  I
will graduate in May of 1997 with my Master's Degree in Computer
Science and live happily ever after... I already have the perfect wife!
I have been programming in C/C++ for over 3 years and have moonlighted
in A.I. for the
Artwork
Project
at NMSU's
Computing Research Lab
(CRL)
.  Most of my programming in C/C++ has been on the Windows
3.1/95/NT platforms, but I have also worked with the X11 and XView
libraries in UNIX.  In fact, the
simulator
I
wrote for CS273 uses these libraries for the GUI.
My primary career interests include 3D graphics (modeling and animation),
texture mapping, and high-quality rendering.  I am also interested in
object-oriented design, GUI design, artificial intelligence, and
software usability.


Feel free to read my
Resume
.  I
will be more than happy to answer any questions you might have either
by
e-mail
or by phone at
(505)521-4487.







For information regarding the Original, Authentic Kriya Yoga of
Babaji, Yogiraj Lahiri Baba, Shri Yukteshwar, and Paramahansa
Hariharananda, please visit the
Kriya Yoga Ashram
.




Other Web Pages I've
Designed:



CS Grad Student
Homepage
As the 1996-1997 President of NMSU's Computer Science Graduate Student
Organization, I have assigned myself the task of redesigning the CS
Grad Student web pages.  I've already added links to on-line versions
of the NMSU Grad Student Handbook, NMSU Grad Student Catalog,
Important Dates for Grad Students, and am currently working on the
CS Dept's Grad Student Handbook.  I've also added pages for accessing
the CS Grad Student Library, a Calendar of Upcoming Events, and a
synopsis of upcoming CS Departmental Colloquia.  Check it out!


On-line Users's Guide for NMSU's Motorola MCH6811
Simulator
As an undergraduate CS student, I wrote a GUI-based simulator for the
MCH6811 family of Motorola's microprocessors.  This simulator is
currently used to teach one of the core courses in the CS Dept (CS273
- Machine Language Programming).  Instead of just providing printed
documentation for this simulator, I had planned to provide a fully
linked HTML version of the manual.  Due to time contraints (and this
nagging attachment to sleep), I have only partially completed the
"HTML-ized" version of the user's manual.
Note:  I cannot claim to
be the sole creator of the CS273 simulator.  This simulator was
originally written as a character-based application for CS273.  I then
wrote the GUI version that encapsulates the functionallity of the old
simulator and extends its capabilities to make it a more valuable
teaching tool.


Other Interesting Sites:
If your looking for some other interesting
WWW
Sites
take a look at some of my favorites.



Check out my friends' home
pages:

Jon Haas
a
NASA scientist, chef extraordinare, keen snooker player, and an
all-around cool guy!

Laura
Haas
a dessert and coffee connesieur, budding Biologist,
formiddable Phase 10 opponent, and an Anti-Procrastination Activist!




This page is maintained by Rob Sinclair
(
rsinclai@cs.nmsu.edu
).


Last modified: October 15, 1996


