Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 03:58:59 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3804
Last-modified: Tue, 19 Nov 1996 14:18:20 GMT


Home page of Charles D. Boxill who went to Combermere School in Barbados also includes note about God's Salvation Plan which talks about heaven and hell











Charles D. Boxill





Graduate Student






Dept of Computer Science







Rutgers University






Click here to locate me




Academic Interests:
Algorithms, Optimisation, Software Engineering, Databases, Number Theory.
I obtained a Joint Honours Degree in Mathematics & Computer Science from
McGill University
in Montreal (Canada's Harvard) on completing my undergraduate studies; and now I am currently pursuing a MSc Degree. I hope to follow this up with Phd studies if the Lord wills. I worked as a Systems Analyst in the Computer  Center  and as a Lecturer in the  Department  of Mathematics  and Computer  Science of the
University of the West Indies (Cave Hill Campus) ,Barbados.


Always trying to maintain a theoretical and a practical balance.


Personal Information

I come from the tiny island of
Barbados
( the most easternly island of the Caribbean)
which has fathered the 3W's, Sir Garfield Sobers, Wes Hall, Big Bird Joel Garner,
Malcolm Marshall;  all stars  of international cricket.
To non cricket fans the  three  Ws refer to Weekes, Walcott and Worrell. I was
educated at one of the oldest secondary schools in the English speaking Caribbean, the
great  Combermere  (Cawmere  to  Tom  Clarke fans ) which in 1995 celebrated its 300th
anniversary.
Click here to see a Barbados postal stamps commemorating this anniversary.
This  great institution has educated some of the Caribbean's finest minds;
These include Tom Clark, Charles Boxill  and  The  late  Errol Walton Barrow the first
Prime Minister of Barbados, just to name a few.

An Important Question Here :

Friend, what would happen to your soul if you were to die this very minute ?

Other Links:

Barbados Advocate On line

Barbados Nation News On Line

Christian Internet Directory



Contact Me:
boxill@paul.rutgers.edu




