Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:49:19 GMT
Server: Apache/1.1.1
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 8100
Last-modified: Wed, 20 Nov 1996 05:31:34 GMT


Maggie M. Lee









Maggie M. Lee

Graduate Student,


Computer Science Department
,
School of Engineering and Applied Science
,
Columbia University
.

Research Advisors:
Dr. Moti Yung
and
Dean Zvi Galil



Research Interests



Network Security


Electronic Commerce
Firewalls and Proxies
Cryptanalysis
Key Escrow


Cryptography

As defined by Diffie and Hellman in the classical paper "New Directions in Cryptography", cryptography is the study of "mathematical" systems for solving two security problems: privacy and authentication.  Topics in Cryptography include:

Private Key Crypto Systems
Public Key Crypto Systems
Digital Signatures
Pseudo Random Number Generators
Probabilistic Encryption
Secret Sharing
Zero Knowledge Protocol
Number Theory


Kerberos Authentication Service


Kerberos is an distributed authentication service used in a client-
server environment where a trusted third-party service is used to verify the
identities of users or clients.  The Kerberos authentication model is based
in part on the Needham and Schroeder key distribution protocol with the
addition of timestamps.  It uses the Data Encryption Standard in Cipher
Block Chaining mode.  Kerberos was implemented at Project Athena at MIT in
1986.  The latest version of MIT Kerberos is Version 5 Beta 7.  Specifications can be found in RFC 1510.
In Greek mythology, Kerberos is the three-headed dog that guarded the entrance to Hades.  It is also known as Cerberus in Roman.  Kerberos appeared in Dante's Inferno.  (Lit Hum finally pays off!)


Teaching Assistant
Office Hours: Tue 4:00-6:00pm
Location: Student Research Lab, Computer Science Department

CS4115 Programming Language Translators - Prof. Mukesh Dalal
CS1007 Introduction to Computer Science - Prof. Thanasis Tsantilas
Previous classes: Calculus I, Calculus II and Introduction to Programming (9 classes)

Graduate Course Work


CS4118 Operating Systems - Prof. Dan Duchamp
CS4701 Artificial Intelligence - Prof. Stolfo
CS4115 Programming Language Translators - Prof. Gail Kaiser
CS4705 Natural Language Processing - Dr. Dianne Litman
CS6998 Computer Security - Dr. Matt Blaze
CS6998 Advanced Cryptography - Dr. Moti Yung
CS6999 Computer Science Projects - Dr. Moti Yung, Dean Zvi Galil
E6998-043 Advanced Internet Services - Prof. Henning Schulzrinne
W4231 Analysis of Algorithms - Prof. Milena Mihail


Skills


Building
Kerberos
Authentication Servers (MIT Kerberos Version 5 Beta 7)
Designing and building
Firewalls
using the TIS firewall toolkit etc.
Building and maintaining World Wide Web servers (Apache, CERN, Netscape, NT)
Designing artistic and innovative Web pages
Building
Proxy
servers using SOCKS5 and socksifying applications like httpd
Building and maintaining Internet news server (INN 1.4)
Configuring and debugging Internet services such as DNS, NFS, NIS(YP)
Building
Anonymous Remailer
servers (Mixmaster 2.0.3)
Performing system and network administration on SunOS, Solaris, AIX, IRIX
Programming in CGI and JAVA (and of course C, Lisp, Pascal and Fortran!)
Managing MIT Project Athena software: Kerberos, OLC, Zephyr, Hesiod, etc.
Managing AFS (Andrew File System)
I am learning about NT and BSDI...

Projects



Top Priority
: I am currently working on the
Multi-Authority Secret-Ballot Elections
Project which is led by my advisor Moti Yung.
Implementing DNS service records to allow per-domain definition
of services such as WWW, ftp, telephony and the like.  Dynamic DNS - Implementing directory service in DNS for Internet telephony.  Secure DNS.
Packet Radio: Implemented a packet audio receiver (also known as the most expensive AM/FM radio available).  This "radio" receives RTP(Real Time Protocol)-over-UDP packets from either a multicast or unicast address and plays them back to the audio device.
I am the Webmaster for the
the Amiens
.
I have recently helped to wire T1 connections and set up a full-service NT server in a residential building in the East Village (Avenue A and Third Street).  This building is the first residential building in New York City to have direct Internet connections.  This project was introduced on CNN a few months ago.
I have just finished writing the Multi-Screen On-line Ordering System for Domino's Pizza.  I almost had to apply Artificial Intelligence to deal with their specials!


Links to Cryptography-related Topics

Moti Yung
's Home Page

Ron Rivest
's Cryptography and Security

Eurocrypt '97

Eurocrypt '96

Crypto '96

The Largest Known Primes

KryptoKnight

Crypto Jokes



Publications and Thesis



Under major construction...



Background

High School:
King's College
, Hong Kong.
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from
Columbia University

Member of
Tau Beta Pi
(National Engineering Honor Society)
Home Town:
Hong Kong
.
Full-Time Work Experience:


IBM T.J. Watson Research Center -
The Agora Project

CS First Boston Corporation

Goldman Sachs


Resume available upon request


Contact Information



Address:

S.W. Mudd Building,
Computer Science Department,
Columbia University,
New York, NY 10027, USA.

E-mail:


maggie@cs.columbia.edu


PGP Key Fingerprint:
9F 66 3E A1 57 3D 23 48  77 3C 49 EF 5D 9B B8 4C


PGP Public Key



Fun Stuff... (when I try to stay away from computers)

Maggie's Studio
Playing Piano (Classical Music)
Roller Blading in Central Park
New York City's Best
Dining Guide

Total New York
"Columbia's
Miller Theatre
, the city's hottest hotbed of innovative programming..."
The New Yorker, October 96

My favorite bars in New York City: Au Bar and the Wisky Bar


Be my guest!



Back to
Computer Science
,
School of Engineering and Applied Science
,
Columbia University
.


Last updated: 1996/11/05

Created: 1995/10/22

Maggie M. Lee, maggie@cs.columbia.edu



