Date: Tue, 26 Nov 1996 02:56:45 GMT
Server: Apache/1.0.0
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 6945
Last-modified: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 16:06:12 GMT

Sandra's Home Page




Hi.  I'm Sandra.  This is my homepage.




One out of five animals on this planet is a beetle!
And that's a fact!



This thing is under construction!
Deal with it!





E-mail:

snad@cs.mcgill.ca




If you are already bored and want out, you can return to
Abraham's
Homepage
.
If that's from whence you came.  That's the undegraduate physics page, in case
you didn't come from there.  I used to be in physics, so i get to be linked
from thence.

If you came from
SOCS
, McGill
University School of Computer Science, whence i now live, you may return there
also.  I won't keep you.

If you want to go somewhere other than there, there are links coming
up.  If not...well, i can't do much about that!


The History of My Homepgae

I was the first physics undergrad to get a homepage.  It really
wasn't my idea to get one: it was made for me against my will.  But
now that i've deleted the original stupid one that my ``friends''
designed for me and rewrote the whole thing, it's okay .. I guess.

I am no longer in physics, actually.  I somehow managed to graduate
this year.  I'm not quite sure how i managed that, but i did.  Now i
am just another overeducated, unemployed member of Gen-X, doing a
masters so i don't have to face the real world anytime soon.
Fortunately, though, i have elected to stay far away from physics for
the time being, and continue my education in CS (Computer Science, i
just don't like typing it all out).

Actually, i'm not even doing a master's.  I'm way low on the totem pole of
grad studies.  I'm a ``Qualifying Student'' (can't you hear the loud, booming,
baritone male echo voice saying that?)  What that means is that i get to share
an office, get to use the graduate lounge, but have to take undergrad classes
to make up for the fact that i didn't take any when i was an undergrad.

So far, cs is okay, although i'm not used to being productive.



My Liberal Slant

Hopefully, i will soon put my own little mediocre ideas
here, like how i think the Walt Disney Corporation and Microsoft are both evil
(and i should also write what i
mean
by evil.)

For now, though, you should check out this web site:

The Reactionary Right
.

Although it's about the US and i live in Canada, the US is so
powerful that it's policies somehow affect policies in Canada.  I
still believe, though, that Canada still has enough backbone not to
follow the US blindly.  Also, Canada seems to be heading toward a
conservative trend.  The popularity of the Reform Party and the
introduction of Workfare in Ontario are just an example.

Even if you are a staunch conservative, i suggest you check out the
site.  For two reasons.  First, i think it is always good to hear another
person's point of view, even if you disagree with it.  And even if you
still disagree after you have heard the other side of the story, maybe at
least you will gain understanding.  Personally, i don't really believe
that any side is completely right or wrong.  I think no one will ever
know, either.
Second, it always helps to know what
your enemies are saying about you
.


Here's another web site you may enjoy:

The Written Word
, a
political journal.

Although most of the stuff in the journal is pretty leftist (or centerist,
whatever), it's pretty fair anyways.  Fairer than most of the media,
anyways.



Something
puzzling

Now why oh why is it that when i do a search for
``evolution'', all i get is links to sites which are
anti
-evolution (i.e. creationists)?  Where are the
evolutionists?  In my opinion, this is getting a little unhealthy
here... There seems to be a prevalence of only
one
opinion.
Now, the question is, are most people creationists or are most people
evolutionists (but are a silent majority who feel extremely secure
about their point of view)?  Or are the creationists just a very vocal
group who are trying to sway people to their side?  Food for thought.
Either way, the lack of several points of view is unhealthy (how can
you get understanding without discussion?)


Mind you, i finally did find something:

Misconceptions About Evolution

It's actually part of a larger, broader debate of Creationism vs. Evolutionism:

Evolution vs Creationism
Homepage




Stupid Stuff

If you want a little insanity, try this out for size.  It's the plight of
somebody on the web who got messed up with copyrights and stuff.
Something similar happened about a year ago where some guy almost got sued
by Disney for having their pictures on his homepage, but i can't seem to
find him anymore.
Anyway, this is a problem with
Dilbert

I think that this prettymuch serves as justification for my position that large
corporations should not be allowed on the web.  Nor should anybody who doesn't have a
clue.

Here's my menial contribution to the party.
I went to this high school in the North End where several weird things happened.
Most of them will hopefully someday become
Urban Legends
.  I'd
really like that, cuz some of these are just too much.  And i swear they're true!

And here's another contribution.
I had this friend, who's page, when it was still available,  was decidedly less
serious than mine could ever be, and had this cool
Jungian Temperment Sorter
, which told me i'm
ENFJ
.



My Icon Sources




S. Polifroni, October 7 1996


