Date: Thu, 21 Nov 1996 22:56:28 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.4.2
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 28 Jun 1996 07:52:26 GMT
Content-length: 7618
Labyrinth of Ambiguity - Yeehah




Wackiness Ensues!

These random syllables brought to you courtesy of
Welcome to my web page, your personal fully "interactive" voyage of discovery.
Now stop wasting time surfing
and go do something to abet commerce or the military.

The home page for CSE sections AE and AG is
here.

Thought for the day:  Computers have been going strictly downhill since
the Apple II series.  Ah, the Apple IIe, now there was a machine.  One spent
relatively little time trying to install software apparently written for
a circa 1956 programmable toaster on one's sparc, or waiting for the system
administrator to come back from a two to three month lunch.
I suppose if youve gone to all the effort of looking at this page then
you are either vaguely interested in me or what Im doing or you have
some scant hope of being entertained.
Ok, so a guy walks into a bar with a yak on a leash, and the thing is, the yak
is huge. I mean really big.  Even for a yak, and theyre pretty large to start
with.  So the bartender says, "Hey, are you planning on bringing that thing in
here?"  And the guy says "First of all, its a yak.  And second of all, Im a
freemason, so I should certainly hope that Im bringing it in here."  I forgot
to mention that this is in Nottingham (or any largish city in the UK that isnt
London.)  Oh, and the bar is built on the site of an old pagan temple.  Aw,
forget it.


This is my cat, Loki.

Someday I hope to make him supreme ruler of the cosmos.  So be kind to animals, because someday one of they will have absolute
mastery of time, space, and the fabric of reality..

This is
me (on the right) fencing
Sean McClean
in the 93
Junior Olympics. He won.  I knocked him out of the epee tournament the next
day, though...
You can
send me mail...
particularly if you wish to say something nice about my cat.
Im a third year grad student at the
U of W CS dept
, where I study
AI, and any other cognitive science disciplines I can get my hands on.
Im also interested in pure math, physics(especially cosmology and
elementary particle physics),
paleontology
, cabbages, monarchy, whatnot.
Who am I kidding.  I write email, read Dilbert, and drink alot of
mochas. (Dogbert has a place in my personal pantheon.  Many real
team-players have never heard of him, yet.) I make fun of classical
AI, a field which makes medieval french theology look like vital,
relevant, and fast-developing.  As far as I can tell, these days doing
'classical AI' consists of getting computers to do intelligent things
for which theyre well suited which sane people who are interested in
the same topic find uninteresting and useless.  Ive heard faculty from
other CS disciplines describe some work as "pure AI", the connotations
of which Ill leave to the agile mind of the reader.  Feh.  Pardon me,
Ill step over to the sink and spit out all my bitterness along with
half of my last drink.
Sometimes I do research.  It is,
all in all, grad school.
An excellent site for studying the
Ars magna.
My favorite authors are

Lord Dunsany
Stanislaw Lem
J L Borges
Italo Calvino
I suppose William Gibson, Haruki
Murakami, and J R R Tolkien also deserve honorable mention.  Much as I
love these authors, not one of them has written the final, perfect
book... But I think that some of them, Borges especially, have read
fragments of it, and allude to half remembered passages in their most
successful writing.
If you like children's books, try Patricia
MacLachlan.
Also, though I cant quite bring myself to put him in
the same class with the aforementioned authors, I highly recommend
Steven Brust ("Agyar" and "Taltos" are good places to start.)

Though none of these have their
books on-line
, many good authors do.
I am also a great fan of understated sarcasm.
I recommend this
excellent story by Neil Gaiman.

Chess stuff.


Other chess stuff.
Some
recommended books.
Its always fun to reminisce about
Simon's Rock
, a wonderful place, although much better in the recollection than in the living.  A nice place to wax nostalgic about but you wouldnt want to live there.

Click here
if you would like to
know more about interdisciplinary cognitive science within UW CS.

Fencing
is fun.  I am very picky
about the
blades
I use.
I quite enjoy fencing.  Some bits of it I have down quite well.  For instance, I have more kime than a battleship full of suicidal klingons on PCP.  However, as Coach Jim is often inclined to point out,
my idea of tactical subtlety
could use broadening.
Poor Jim.
An interesting question is that of whether spirit or technique dominates.
Much as Im inclined to think the SCA consists of a bunch of
ferallieurs taking great pleasure in thwacking at each other with sticks
in between
beers,
historical
fencing
is interesting.
You can always count on those wacky guys at the FIE to come up with some
zany,madcap, and riotous rule changes
Want to see my thrill-packed
home page?
To be quite honest, I dont wander around the web much any more, as its almost totally vacuous.  Oh well, maybe things will improve in a few centuries. Im inclined to doubt it but one might as well be an optimist. Sigh.
I recommend that you look into the poetry of Philip Larkin if youre having a particularly bad day, or if you just want one.
In need of a useful web services?
Nick
will take tremendous pleasure in providing them.  Oh yeah, hes also good for a dose of neo-Luddism.  Rather odd coming from a CSE guy, much less an AI flavored one.
You might want to check out the Electronic Muse, brought to you by
Mary-Suzanne.
Shes the only person I know
whose cats have home pages.
Take a gander at
Daphne's home page
.  Shescool and has beaucoup attitude.
Ill leave you with this. (Thanks to Messr. Mehl...)

When love is gone, there's always justice.
And when justice is gone, there's always force.
And when force is gone, there's always Mom.
Hi, Mom!

-Laurie Anderson

Speak my language...

zmason@cs.washington.edu

P.S.
Hi Rane!



