Date: Sun, 01 Dec 1996 20:26:02 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Fri, 01 Nov 1996 19:12:16 GMT
Content-length: 2473
BERNOULLI PROJECT





The Bernoulli project is building tools for constructing problem
solving environments (PSEs) for computational science and engineering.
Many of these applications involve the numerical solution of partial
differential equations like the Navier-Stokes equations and the
equations of elasticity. Commonly used solution methods like the
finite element and finite difference methods convert the problem of
solving differential equations to that of solving systems of algebraic
equations, using a process called discretization. The algebraic
equations themselves can be solved using numerical techniques like
Gaussian elimination, Krylov space methods and Newton's method.

The Bernoulli project integrates breakthroughs in three areas:
discretization tools,
restructuring compiler technology
and
runtime systems
.
The discretization tools are being implemented by Rich Zippel using
his Weyl symbolic algebra substrate. Weyl extends the data structures
available in Common Lisp to include objects like matrices, vectors,
rational functions, rings etc. The discretization toolkit implements
the weighted residual method which subsumes the finite-element,
finite-volume and spectral methods. Finite-difference schemes are also
being implemented.
The systems of equations produced by discretization can be written in
the form Ax = b where A is a large, sparse matrix, b is a known
vector, and x is a vector of unknowns. Such large systems of equations
can be solved on parallel machines like the IBM SP-2, using solvers
that exploit the sparsity of matrix A to reduce computation and
communication requirements. We are developing restructuring compiler
technology to transform specifications of these solvers (expressed as
sequential programs operating on dense matrices) to parallel codes
that exploit sparsity.
The target of the compiler is a runtime substrate for parallel
machines that conforms to the PORTS specification for portability.
The runtime substrate provides low-latency message passing and a
global address space on distributed-memory platforms like the IBM
SP-2. We are experimenting with versions based on MPI and on active
messages.
Copyright © Cornell University


