MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: CERN/3.0
Date: Sunday, 24-Nov-96 21:31:49 GMT
Content-Type: text/html
Content-Length: 8994
Last-Modified: Friday, 05-Apr-96 11:18:22 GMT


Guide to Multimedia Educational Materials




Multimedia Educational
Materials

During the
ACM SIGMM
business
meeting of the
1995 ACM Multimedia conference
,
interest was expressed in developing a standard syllabus for multimedia
education. This web site is a first step in that direction. It
contains pointers to on-line information that is useful to those
of us developing courses in multimedia.

Add a new URL


Suggestion Box

Books and Journals


A Technical Introduction to Digital Video

by Charles A. Poynton, published by John Wiley & Sons, 1996


IEEE Multimedia
Homepage


Multimedia: Computing, Communications and Applications",

by Ralf Steinmetz, Klara Nahrstedt, published by Prentice Hall, July 1996
Covers multimedia concepts and implementations, including data
representation, compression, storage, communication, operating systems,
documents, hypertext and MHEG, user interfaces, synchronization and
applications.

Multimedia Networking Handbook
by James P. Cavanagh (editor), published by Auerbach Publication, 1995. --
A collection of articles, useful for multimedia seminars.


Video and Image Processing in Multimedia Systems
,
by Borko Furht
Treats a number of critical topics in multimedia systems, with respect
to image and video processing techniques and their implementations.
A short description, table of contents, and ordering information is
included.


Multimedia Systems and Techniques
, by Borko Furht
Covers fundamental concepts and techniques used in multimedia systems,
including objects and related models, compression, interfaces, storage,
communication and networking, synchronization, information systems,
scheduling, and video indexing and retrieval techniques.  A short
description, table of contents, and ordering information is included.


Multimedia Tools and Applications: An International Journal
,
by Robert W. Holland, Jr.
Complete information about Kluwer's journal, including
Aims/Scope information, ordering information, table
of contents information, and instructions for authors
who may wish to submit papers to the journal.


Multimedia Database Systems: Design and Implementation Strategies
,
edited by Kingsley C. Nwosu
A compendium of state-of-the-art research and development work
pertaining to the problems and issues in the design and development of
multimedia database systems.


Distributed Multimedia
,
by Palmer W. Agnew and Anne S. Kellerman
How is the convergence of global communications systems building, who
are the major players in it, and how will your own future as an
information user or provider be affected? This book answers these
questions.


Multimedia Interface Design
,
by Meera M. Blattner and Roger B. Dannenberg
Examines the use of audio, video, graphics, and animation in computer
systems, specifically in the design and construction of the
computer-human interface.


Multimedia Systems
,
by John F. Koegel Buford
This book provides a technical introduction to key issues in
multimedia, including detailed discussion of new technologies,
principles, current research, and future directions. The book covers
important interdisciplinary aspects of digital multimedia systems,
among them sound and video recording, television engineering, digital
signal processing, systems architectures, user interface, and
algorithms.


Multimedia Programming: Objects, Environments and Frameworks
,
by Simon J. Gibbs and Dionysios C. Tsichritzis
Multimedia Programming is divided into three parts; Part I surveys
current multimedia applications and underlying technologies, Part II
explores an object-oriented framework with which programmers can build
multimedia applications, while Part III speculates on the future
directions for multimedia programming.


Multimedia Computing: Case Studies From MIT Project Athena
,
by Matthew E. Hodges and Russell M. Sasnett
A concise introduction to multimedia computing, reviewing both the
human and technical elements involved in multimedia technology and the
major issues that will determine its development over the next five
years.

Course Notes


Cornell
University: Multimedia Systems
- A graduate level survey course in
multimedia, covering representation, compression, storage, transmission, and
processing.
George Washington University Multimedia Suite
-
This site lists three of the four courses in our MM graduate
program. It includes the syllabus, reading list and assignments.
UC
Berkeley: Multimedia Systems and Applications
- A graduate level
course covering the design and implementation of interactive multimedia
applications including interactive television, hypermedia systems, and
video conferencing and groupware.
Univ of
Texas, Austin: Multimedia Systems
- A course in advanced systems
covering both theoretical and practical issues in designing multimedia
systems.
Univ of
Texas, Austin: Multimedia Communication and Databases
- An
advanced course in multimedia systems covering transport protocol
design, routing and multicasting, mobile networking, operating system
support, and multimedia databases.
UIUC: Topics in Multimedia Communication
-
The course covers specific issues of networking and communication
related to multimedia.
UIUC: Multimedia Computing Systems
-
Presents integration issues in the design of a multimedia system from
specification to software implementation. The course is an introductory
course to multimedia computing including compression, OS,
communication, synchronization and user interface topics.
U. Mass: Multimedia Networking
-
A graduate-level seminar course in
multimedia networking.
Virginia Tech CS4624: Multimedia, Hypertext, Information Access
-
Semester senior level course, 60Mbytes of files, over 800 HTML pages,
over 300 links, exercises, figures, study questions, quizes (self-paced).
EE E6850 Visual Information Systems
-
A graduate level survery course introducing topics in storage,
compression, transmission, and analysis of visual data.  Include
syllabus, reading list, and homeworks.
COMP 790U: Multimedia Computing and Systems
-
A graduate course primarily aimed at preparing students in Computer
Science for research in Multimedia Computing.  Covers fundamentals of
computing with digital media, current technology, standards, and
research in this area.

Seminars


UC Berkeley:
Multimedia and Graphics Seminar
- A weekly seminar series,
broadcast on the MBONE, which includes speakers from UC Berkeley and
elsewhere on advanced topics in multimedia and graphics.

Other


Electric Eye Multimediator
Canadian multimedia consulting company eb site.  Lots of links and
information about commercial multimedia applications.



