Date: Sun, 24 Nov 1996 23:09:08 GMT
Server: NCSA/1.5
Content-type: text/html
Last-modified: Wed, 13 Nov 1996 20:43:20 GMT
Content-length: 4710
Data Explorer


Data Explorer Repository

The Data Explorer Repository is brought to you by the
Cornell
Theory Center
and
IBM
.
IBM's Visualization Data Explorer, an extensible visualization
environment, provides an easy to use interface for
visual programming and computation on a variety of
workstations.  This repository allows DX users and researchers to share
expertise and customized programs.


Education

Teaching with DX


CS 418
- Cornell University introductory computer graphics course

"Teaching Computer Graphics and Scientific Visualization using the Dataflow
Block Diagram Language DataExplorer"
- From Forefronts newsletter,
Fall, 1993


Tutorials


CTC lab exercises for researchers





Tips and Macros
Combinations of modules which produce useful new functions



Student Projects:

(DX v.2.0 1993-1994)


(DX v.2.0 1994-1995)


(DX v.2.0 and v.3 1995-1996)

The projects are mostly modules written in C which extend the function
of DX. Some projects use DX for data analysis, and some are related graphics
applications, including x-windows and pc-based projects.



Chemistry extensions
This suite of modules and macros is designed to facilitate molecular
modeling with the IBM AIX Visualization Data Explorer software package.
Our intent here is not to reproduce or replace any existing modeling packages
but rather to provide a highly flexible environment for constructing
visual programs uniquely tailored to specific research applications.
This package also includes tools designed to facilitate chemistry animation
production.


Data Input filters

Data input filters for FLUENT version 1, FLUENT version 2, PHOENICS, and
PLOT3D data are described.


Extensions

This directory contains the following subdirectories:
Macros for Annotation, Import and Export, Rendering, Texture Mapping, Time
Keeping, Transformation, Vectors and Matrices,  Other Macros and Modules.


Utilities

The following conversion routines and filters can be found in this directory:
Arctools, BoundingBox, dx.to.abekas, dxf2dx, gen_dx_header,
SAS to DX, and modpath.dx, which converts output of the USGS Modpath program
into DX format.


Earth and Space Sciences

This directory contains example programs, macros, colormaps, utilities, etc.
for use with the IBM Visualization Data Explorer (Version 2.1) on workstations,
especially for the earth and space sciences.  All of the data are in the
public domain and unless otherwise noted are provided courtesy of the National
Space Science Data Center at NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD.




IBM's Data Explorer home page


University of Montana DX home page


Dartmouth DX page




General information about
Visualization at the
Theory Center
is also available online.

Acknowledgements, Copyrights, Warranties, and Limitations


Cornell Theory Center
