Server: Dienst v4-1-6
MIME-version: 1.0
Content-type: text/html
Design and Performance of Horus: A Lightweight Group Communications  System

Design and Performance of Horus: A Lightweight Group Communications  System
Robbert Van Renesse,  Takako M. Hickey and  Kenneth P. Birman
TR94-1442
August 1994

The Horus project seeks to develop a communication system addressing the requirements of a wide variety of distributed applications. Horus implements the group communications model providing (among others) unreliable or reliable FIFO, causal, or total group multicasts. It is extensively layered and highly reconfigurable allowing applications to only pay for services they use. This architecture enables groups with different communication needs to coexist in a single system. The approach permits experimentation with new communication properties and incremental extension of the system, and enables us to support a variety of application-oriented interfaces. Our initial experiments show good performance.


How to view this document


Display an
overview
of the document in one of the following formats.

Overview of thumbnail pages
Structural overview


Display a
selected page
in one of the following formats (document has 20 pages).


raw OCR output
hi-resolution tiff image
inline gif image




Display the
whole
document in one of the following formats.

OCR text
(produced by OCR, may have errors) 46537 bytes.



Print or download all or selected pages.



You are granted permission for the non-commercial reproduction, distribution,
display, and performance of this technical report in any format, BUT this
permission is only for a period of 45 (forty-five) days from the most recent
time that you verified that this technical report is still available from
the Computer Science Department of Cornell University under terms that
include this permission.  All other rights are reserved by the author(s).
[
Search
|
Home page
]

NCSTRL
This server operates at Cornell University.

Send email to
tech-reports@cs.cornell.edu

