MIME-Version: 1.0
Server: WebSTAR/1.2.1 ID/28
Message-ID:
Date: Sunday, 01-Dec-96 13:21:05 GMT
Last-Modified: Thursday, 21-Nov-96 05:23:20 GMT
Content-type: text/html
Content-length: 3512

Cornell Nanofabrication Facility Home Page









The Cornell Nanofabrication Facility (CNF), formerly known as the
National Nanofabrication Facility at Cornell University (NNF)
and prior to that the
National Research and Resource Facility for
Submicron Structures (NRRFSS)
, has served the US research community for
more than 15 years by providing nanofabrication services to over 500 research
projects.  Subject areas of projects completed are as diverse as Astronomy to
Plant Pathology, as well as the more conventional Micro-electronics, Physics and
Materials Research, and emerging fields of Integrated Optics and
Micro-Electro-Mechanical Structures (MEMS).

The CNF is a member of the
National Nanofabrication Users Network
,
along with
Stanford
,
UC Santa Barbara
,
Penn State
, and
Howard University
.

The NNUN is an integrated partnership of these
user facilities, supported by the National Science Foundation, providing
unparalleled opportunities for creative researchers to turn new ideas into
experimental reality.  The network provides to the US research community a
new dimension in fabrication capabilities and services, a knowledge resource and
a source of instruction to the community.
There are items of general interest:

We are in the final stages of bringing our new
Leica VB6
E-beam lithography system on-line.
And there are other
changes
as well.

Cleanliness Procedures

Current Lab Info
- status, activity, scheduling, and directory.

Process Info

There are documents loosely organized by audience:

Local Users
- of likely interest to local, Cornell-based CNF researchers.

Remote Users
- of likely interest to remote, non-Cornell-based CNF researchers.

CNF Industrial Affiliates
- of likely interest to to members and potential members of the CNF's Industrial Affiliates Program.

Or, you can get a listing of everything in our webserver from our:

Index

We also have links to
other servers
which might be of interest.
Send comments, feedback, or inquiries to:
webmaster@cnf.cornell.edu
Or, if all else fails, we can be reached at:
Cornell Nanofabrication Facility
Cornell University
Knight Lab
Ithaca, NY 14853
(607) 255-2329

Updated 14-Nov-96


